.. title: Debian cont...
.. slug: 4
.. date: 2004-03-25 17:28:48
.. tags: computers, debian

I'm on the UserLinux discussion list mostly because it's really
interesting to watch a distribution get going and also because
I'm hankering for a user-oriented distribution that I don't
have to fiddle with that I can do regular non-fiddling things
with.

Anyhow, caught this email, which is fascinating--I had no idea
(apologies to Mr. Perens for quoting without permission and out
of context but I figure it's in the public archives anyhow)::

   Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2004 13:41:44 -0800
   From: Bruce Perens <---------------->
   Reply-To: ---------------------------
   To: ---------------------------
   Subject: [Discuss] Meaning of the Debian Swirl

   Fabio asked what the Debian Swirl means.

   It's "magic smoke". Electrical engineer lore is that when you burn out
   an electronic component, you cause the "magic smoke" that makes it work
   to be released. Once the magic smoke is gone, the component doesn't work
   any longer. Debian is supposed to be the magic smoke that makes your
   computer work.

       Thanks

       Bruce


That's cool--I had no idea.

Also, I burned a Knoppix cd, brought my old Dell Inspiron 7000 
laptop with a DLink wireless card right up, and installed Debian
by typing::

   knoppix-install


(or something very very similar) at the prompt and selecting 
debian-installation.  It worked, it was trivial, and it was 
fantastic.  My laptop was up and running in 30 minutes (from when 
I burned the cd to when the laptop had booted into Debian).
Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.  Now I can _use_ it.
