.. title: My status with Debian
.. slug: 5
.. date: 2004-10-12 17:08:23
.. tags: computers, debian, bluesock

I have Debian GNU/Linux happily running on my laptop, though my laptop
is pretty pokey (it's an Inspiron 7000 that I bought in 1998).

My server at Serverbeach (bluesock.org) runs Debian and it was doing
fine until the kernel switched the / mount to read-only and then died.
Rebooting caused the server to fsck everything and I lost /var/lib
and /var/cache...  Then things got pretty interesting for a few hours.
My friend gave me a tarball of his /var/lib (minus some random stuff)
and from that and some useful files in /var/backup, I was able to
bring most of the server back to life.  Additionally, I found some
of the files that were missing in lost+found.  Tawdry things like
mailing list archives dating back to 2000.  Time to institute a more
rigorous backup system that includes more data....

My dad loaned me one of his monster servers (see figure 1) because it
was non-functional.  My roommate pulled all the stuff out and put it
back in again and now it works fine...  Not clear what the actual
issue was.  Anyhow, once I get it booting, I'm going to slap Debian
on that machine and start using it for development.  Then I'll switch
my pokey laptop to mirroring/backing-up bluesock.org.

I've been really happy with Debian.  As happy as I was with Gentoo, except
I don't have to wait hours for X and various other large things to compile.

.. code-block::

    ____
   ||__||   <---- server
   ||__||
   |    |
   |    |
   |____|   . <-- me


*Figure 1: an ascii picture of me standing next to the server*
