.. title: My PyBlosxom setup (5/15/2005)
.. slug: setup-20050515
.. date: 2005-05-15 10:39:46
.. tags: blog, pyblosxom

I figured I'd take some time to share my PyBlosxom setup. As of this
writing, I'm running PyBlosxom under Python 2.3.4 on Debian with Apache
1.3.33. I'm running PyBlosxom 1.2 (with some minor adjustments). I have
the following plugins:

* **booklist** - displays a list of books that I'm reading
* **comments**
* **wbgcomment_blacklist** - rejects comments that have certain
  blacklisted terms in them (which has the minor nuissance that no one
  can talk about Texas Hold'em on here)
* **conditionalhttp** - returns a 304 if the content hasn't been
  modified
* **filter** - filters out CVS and other directories from my blog
* **gecko** - tells people to use Firefox at the top if they aren't
  already doing so
* **plugininfo** - lists the plugins that I'm using
* **pycategories** - lists the categories in a hierarchy
* **pyfilenamemtime** - allows me to set the mtime of the blog entry in
  the file name
* **pyinclude** - allows me to include files with python scriptlets in
  the head and foot templates
* **pystaticfile** - (poorly named) allows "static" content on my site
  but renders it in the existing template structure
* **readmore** - allows me to break up my entries into a summary and
  extended section (I don't think I ever use this)
* **rss2renderer** - builds the RSS 2.0 feed
* **tipsparser** - parses tips files
* **title** - urlencodes the title of a blog entry and tosses it in
  $urlencodedtitle (which is better for Google Links)
* **wbgamazon** - builds Amazon links
* **wbgarchives** - builds archive pages for entire years
* **wbgdebug** - allows me to look at the debug output of my blog by
  tossing debug=yes in the querystring
* **wbggrep** - my incredibly hacked "search" engine
* **wbgpager** - builds paging navigation when there are more entries
  to display than I want to display at one time
* **wbgrecent** - summarizes recent activity on my blog

I write most of my entries using vi or emacs and for the most part I
write them in HTML.

There was a time where I wrote blog entries on whatever was in my head
to build content and thus test PyBlosxom. Recently, I've been doing
development summaries and writing about life changes. I think a good
portion of my blog entries talk about how I don't have much free time.

I have no idea who my audience is or what they look for here.
