.. title: pyvideo last thoughts
.. slug: status_20160822
.. date: 2016-08-22
.. tags: dev, python, pyvideo, pyvideo-data

What is pyvideo?
================

`pyvideo.org`_ is an index of Python-related conference and user-group
videos on the Internet. Saw a session you liked and want to share it? It's
likely you can find it, watch it, and share it with pyvideo.org.

This is my last update. pyvideo.org is now in new and better hands and
will continue going forward.

.. TEASER_END

I started pyvideo.org in March 2012 as a successor to Python Miro
Community. As I recall, I was frustrated with the Miro Community platform
and was trying to figure out whether I should bail on the idea altogether
or not. Then just before PyCon US 2012, I thought about all the things I
actually needed in the site and all the things I didn't and decided to
just write my own. I think that was a couple of weeks before PyCon US 2012.
That happened and thus pyvideo.org was born and Python Miro Community
was ended.

In retrospect, one of the things I should have done afterwards was another
rewrite to account for the things I learned while writing that prototype,
but I never did that. The scope of pyvideo.org was huge, so I spent my time
on other aspects of the project instead.

I learned a lot while working on pyvideo.org. Many of the problems I ran into
and things I experimented with turned into experience I relied on later 
while working at Mozilla on the support and feedback sites. Architecture
issues, code issues, Django things, Python things, infrastructure things,
working with others, project communication, project infrastructure, education,
accessibility, the long litanty of wtfs involved in video on the Internet,
encoding formats, automation, processing pipelines, tagging taxonomies,
search, indexing, languages, date/time formats, the complexities with
peoples' names, etc. Side projects can have a long tail of value.

Through my work on pyvideo, I had an opportunity to talk with people I never
otherwise would have talked with. Sure we're all just people at heart, but
I experience a lot of anxiety talking to people I admire. One of the things
constantly going through my head when talking about pyvideo was, "Oh, please
don't look at the code. Please please please please please." The code was
crap. But I was often told it ran the site and the site ran ok and crappy
code is better than no code some times. Talking with people about pyvideo
and their thoughts and ideas and what they used the site for was always the
highlight of my PyCon US experiences. I got a lot of encouragement. I really
appreciated that.


So what about pyvideo.org?
==========================

In January 2016 I announced I was pretty done. Then in February, Sheila and I
decided to spend time pulling together the data we collected over the
years, throwing some infrastructure around it and cleaning it up. I worked
on that for a while.

At PyCon US 2016, Paul Logston organized a sprint around PyTube using that
data. We had some conversations and as of last week, he's running pyvideo.org.

There are a few things here that make me happy:

1. pyvideo.org is now a statically-generated site. That's something that
   Sheila and I toyed with, but we had a bunch of requirements baggage that
   made it difficult. A clean break doesn't have those problems.
2. Paul is doing a great job of building a community around the work
   involved. That's something I didn't do well and it's really a critical
   part of running a huge site like this.
3. Passing projects to other people is hard, but Sheila did a ton of
   coordination leg work to make it all happen and Paul was thoughtful,
   diligent, communicative and understanding through it all. I really
   appreciate that.

Ego, I think the handoff was successful and now pyvideo.org is in new and
better hands!


.. _pyvideo.org: http://pyvideo.org/
