.. title: pyvideo status: September 14th, 2012
.. slug: status_20120914
.. date: 2012-09-14 13:06:41
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo

What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
conference and user-group videos on the Internet. Saw a session you
liked and want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it,
and share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

I posted the `videos for SciPy US 2012 <http://pyvideo.org/category/20/scipy_2012>`_
earlier today. They're missing summaries and Carl is forwarding me a bunch
of data correction requests. I'll work through that over the next few
days.

SciPy 2012 had ok metadata. I spent about 3 hours on SciPy 2012 over
the last few weeks.

Next in the hopper are PyCon AU 2012, DjangoCon US 2012 and PyCon DE 2011.
You can see
the `queue of conferences here <http://pyvideo.org/suggestions/videos>`_.


Thinking about a tip jar
========================

pyvideo.org takes a lot of time. Plus the software it runs on is pretty
cool and could/should be used for other domains. This is less of a hobby
and more of a part-time job.

I've been (slowly) working on collaboration features in richard that make
it easier to delegate the work to other people. Even with that, I'll be
spending a lot of time on this.

One thing I was thinking about doing was adding a tip jar sort of thing to
pyvideo.org. My questions to you are:

1. is that offensive?
2. is this site valuable enough to you that you would tip me?
3. what systems are good for this sort of thing? PayPal? gittip?
