.. title: pyvideo status: April 9th, 2015
.. slug: status_20150409
.. date: 2015-04-09 20:00
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo


What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
conference and user-group videos on the Internet. Saw a session you
liked and want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it,
and share it with pyvideo.org.

This is the latest status report for all things happening on the site.

.. TEASER_END
   

Status
======

It's been about a year since my last status report. The last year
was tough for a bunch of reasons I don't want to go into. On top
of that, I was pretty burned out and I had a ton of other stuff I
needed to do. So I didn't do much with pyvideo for a long time.

However, we had a lot of help from other people. Sheila Miguez took
over adminning the site and added a bunch of conferences. Paul
Collins did a ton of work fixing technical debt issues and cleaning up
richard codebase. Trey Hunner got richard working with
Python 3. Spencer Herzberg, Magnun Leno, Reiner Gerecke, Wes Turner,
Benjamin Bertrand, and Burak Guven fixed a bunch of bugs, added new
functionality and cleaned up documentation.

I started to get back to things mid-March. I started with the ansible
work that Sheila did and tweaked it so we could use it to deploy
pyvideo. Then I redid all the infrastructure, updated richard to
Django 1.7, fixed a bunch of django-browserid related issues, nixed
some code and did some other cleanup. Then I had a few days left
before PyCon US 2015 and I decided to throw together a rough playlist
implementation.

Playlists are something Sheila and I have talked about for a
while. It's great that pyvideo is an index of videos, but until now
there's been no good way of collecting a subset of videos you think
are interesting to watch later. There's been no good way of curating a
group of videos and then sharing that list with other people. Perhaps
you want to help people learn Flask. Perhaps you want to share videos
about debugging in Python. Perhaps you want to collect videos related
to a class you're teaching. Perhaps you want everyone to experience
`Erik Rose: Man of Mystery <http://pyvideo.org/playlist/1>`_.

I landed a rough implementation of playlists today. It's not perfect;
it's missing some key things. I wrote up some issues in the richard
issue tracker for features that should get implemented to make it
really useful. Even without some of those things, it's useful today.

Want to try it out?

Sign in to pyvideo. You'll see a "My playlists" link in the navbar at
the top. Go to that page and create a playlist.

Now you can go to any video page on the site and add that video to
your playlists.

All playlists are public. You can share the url of your playlists with
other people.

Next step is to implement some of the other features listed in the
`richard issue tracker <https://github.com/pyvideo/richard/issues>`_.
If there are other things you want to see or you bump into problems,
toss an issue in the tracker.

I hope you find it helpful!
