.. title: pyvideo status: March 20th, 2012
.. slug: status_20120320
.. date: 2012-03-20 20:52:22
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo

What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index
of Python-related videos on the Internet.  For the most part, it's a
collection of videos from Python-related conferences.  Saw a session you
liked and want to share it?  It's likely you can find it, watch it, and
share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

I launched pyvideo.org on March 10th. That was 10 days ago. In those 10
days, I fixed a bunch of issues, screwed up the site a couple of times,
got dozens of emails many with encouragement and feature requests,
talked to Craig with `Universal Subtitles <http://www.universalsubtitles.org>`_,
and watched Google Analytics with some amazement. It's been a really
wild 10 days.

I think overall the experience was a successful one, but there were a
series of failures most of which were because I wasn't ready to go
live when I went live, but I had really run out of time. Lack of feeds,
media urls, easy ways to fix data, crummy experience on iPads and Android
tablets, ... The list is longish. So it goes.

Of all the successes, I'm the happiest for the following:

* **The site had 100,000 or so visitors.** That roughly means that PyCon
  2012 reached 98,000 more people than it otherwise would have. That
  means that 98,000 more people heard about programming practices,
  robots, outreach, libraries, applications, case studies and all the
  other things we learned at PyCon. That's a big win.

  Thank you to the PyCon conference crew! You run a damn good conference.

* **I got dozens of emails.** Many with encouragement, some with feature
  requests, some with data fixing requests, and some pointing out
  issues with the site. I think it's awesome that so many people
  took the time to email me feedback to make this resource better.

* **There are 8 forks on Github of richard.** Further, I've had the
  pleasure to add two new people to the AUTHORS file and look forward to
  adding a third very soon. Thank you to Reiner, David and Alejandro!

  I work on richard and pyvideo in my spare time. I think this software
  is useful for other conferences and other groups which is why I made
  it Free Software and kept it separate from pyvideo. I can't possibly
  do everything I want to do with it, so I spent time writing documentation
  to ease the barriers to entry for new contributors. I feel really good
  about the work I did.
  
I've spent the last few days writing bug reports for things that need
to be fixed, fixing some, fixing some data, and working on feeds. I
haven't spent a ton of time on feeds, yet. I really hope to finish it
soon, though.

If you're interested in helping out, I sure could use you! Testing,
documenting, fixing the layout of some of the pages, implementing
new features, fixing project infrastructure---there are a lot of
different kinds of things you could help out with.

Issue trackers are here:

* `pyvideo.org issue tracker <http://github.com/willkg/pmc/issues/>`_
* `richard issue tracker <http://github.com/willkg/richard/issues/>`_
