.. title: pyvideo status: February 15th, 2014
.. slug: status_20140215
.. date: 2014-02-15 22:28
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo


What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
conference and user-group videos on the Internet. Saw a session you
liked and want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it,
and share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

Over the last year, a number of things have led to a tangled mess of
tasks that need to be done that were blocked on other tasks that were
complicated by the fact that I had half-done a bunch of things. I've
been chipping away at various aspects of things, but most of them
were blocked on me finishing infrastructure changes I started in
November when we moved everything to `Rackspace <http://rackspace.com/>`_.

I finally got my local pyvideo environment working and a staging
environment working. I finally sorted out my postgres issues, so I've
got backups and restores working (yes--I test restores). I finally
fixed all the problems with my deploy script so I can deploy
when I want to and can do it reliably.

Now that I've got all that working, I pushed changes to the footer
recognizing that Sheila and I are co-adminning (and have been for some
time) and that Rackspace is graciously hosting pyvideo.

In the queue of things to do:

* finish up some changes to richard and then update pyvideo to the
  latest richard

* re-encode all the .flv files I have from blip.tv into something
  more HTML5-palatable (I could use help with this--my encoding-fu
  sucks)

* fix other blip.tv metadata fallout--for example most of the
  PyGotham videos have terrible metadata (my fault)

* continue working on process and tools to make pyvideo easier
  to contribute to

That about covers it for this status report.

Questions, comments, thoughts, etc--send me email or twart me at 
`@PyvideoOrg <https://twitter.com/PyvideoOrg>`_ or 
or `@willcage <https://twitter.com/willcage>`_.
