.. title: pyvideo status: August 31st, 2012
.. slug: status_20120831
.. date: 2012-08-31 16:04:03
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo

What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
videos on the Internet. For the most part, it's a collection of
videos from Python-related conferences. Saw a session you liked and
want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it, and share
it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

I posted the `videos for EuroPython 2011 <http://pyvideo.org/category/19/europython-2011>`_
last night. Many thanks to N who pulled together metadata for the
conference. That saved me gobs of time.

I want to work on EuroPython 2012 next. I've pulled all the data
in the YouTube channel, however, the description and speaker data
isn't easily available. Best I can find is 
`https://ep2012.europython.eu/p3/schedule/ep2012/ <https://ep2012.europython.eu/p3/schedule/ep2012/>`_
which isn't in a form I can do much with.

**I could really use some help!** I need someone to either find a
conference organizer and ask them for the data in some easy-to-parse
format or scrape it. If possible, a JSON format would be great, but I
can do any format that has a parser in the Python stdlib, database dumps,
and probably other formats as well.

The key pieces of information I need are these:

* title (this lets me match it up to the YouTube data I already have)
* list of speakers
* summary (short summary about the talk---sometimes called abstract)
* description (longer-form description of the talk)
* language the talk is in (English? Italian? ...)

Bonus points:

* everything is in utf-8
* summary and description are marked up in HTML

If you can help, please email me at willkg at bluesock dot org.

Thank you!

**Update:** Omar sent me an XML file with all the EuroPython 2012 metadata.
I'm pretty sure I'm all set now. Thank you Omar!
