.. title: pyvideo status: April 3rd, 2013
.. slug: status_20130403
.. date: 2013-04-03 09:12
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo


What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
conference and user-group videos on the Internet. Saw a session you
liked and want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it,
and share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

* `Videos for PyCon US 2013
  <http://pyvideo.org/category/33/pycon-us-2013>`_ are still going
  up. There are 115 posted and live now. There are around 30 that are
  waiting for presenters to look at the metadata and tell Carl whether
  the metadata is good or not. More on that later.

* Several new people submitted patches to `richard
  <https://github.com/willkg/richard>`_! Several of the patches were
  fixes to broken things they saw on pyvideo.org. I've applied the
  fixes to the site directly, but have been waiting on making any
  non-critical updates to the site until after things have cooled
  off. I think I'll do a site update in the next week or so.

* PyData 2013 was recorded. When videos are posted, they'll be in the
  `PyData category <http://pyvideo.org/category/18/pydata>`_. I don't
  know what the posting schedule is.

* I was contacted a couple of times by the inimitable `Montréal Python
  <http://montrealpython.org/>`_ to post their videos. They're going
  to test out `steve <https://steve.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_
  which is the tool I've been writing for the last 6 months to make it
  possible for other folks to generate the video metadata needed by
  pyvideo.org.

  I eagerly look forward to their progress and to their videos getting
  on the site.

  If it works out well, I'll blog more about steve and look for
  volunteers to use steve to generate the video metadata for the `ever
  increasing backlog <http://pyvideo.org/suggestions/videos>`_.

* Several people are gittip'ing me. It's not a lot of money, but that
  and the many emails I've gotten over the last few weeks about the
  site have been really great. I work on pyvideo.org in my free time
  of which I don't have a lot. It's nice to know that prioritizing
  pyvideo.org work over other things helps you.


That's the gist of things!

Most of the PyCon US 2013 videos that aren't live are waiting for
presenters to tell Carl at NextDayVideo (carl at nextdayvideo dot com)
whether the metadata is good.

* If you see your name on this list and you've told Carl the metadata
  is fine already, please send him a friendly reminder.
* If you see your name on this list and you haven't told Carl
  anything, please send him a "yes, this is great!" or the list of
  things you need corrected.
* If you see a friend on this list, tell your friend to do one of the
  above.

I'll update this list as I'm aware of changes. However, I don't work
for NextDayVideo, so it's entirely possible my list is not current
and/or there are errors. If so, please let me know.

Here's the list (last updated 2013-04-12 7:13am -0400):

* Digital signal processing through speech, hearing, and Python -- Mel Chua
* Faster Python Programs through Optimization -- Mike Müller
* Python beyond the CPU -- Andy Terrel, Travis Oliphant, Mark Florisson
* Code to Cloud in under 45 minutes -- John Wetherill
* A Gentle Introduction to Computer Vision -- Katherine Scott, Anthony Oliver
* Documenting Your Project in Sphinx -- Brandon Rhodes
* Contribute with me! Getting started with open source development -- Jessica McKellar
* Intermediate Twisted: Test-Driven Networking Software -- Itamar Turner-Trauring
* Gittip: Inspiring Generosity -- Chad Whitacre
* The Magic of Metaprogramming -- Jeff Rush
* You can be a speaker at PyCon! -- Anna Ravenscroft
* sys._current_frames(): Take real-time x-rays of your software for fun and performance -- Leonardo Rochael
* Planning and Tending the Garden: The Future of Early Childhood Python Education -- Kurt Grandis
* powerful pyramid features -- Carlos de la Guardia
* Python for Robotics and Hardware Control -- Jonathan Foote
* Copyright and You -- Frank Siler
* Chef: Automating web application infrastructure -- Kate Heddleston
* Numba: A Dynamic Python compiler for Science -- Travis Oliphant, Siu Kwan Lam, Mark Florisson
* Integrating Jython with Java -- Jim Baker, Shashank Bharadwaj
* Iteration & Generators: the Python Way -- Luciano Ramalho
* ApplePy: An Apple ][ emulator in Python -- James Tauber
* Distributed Coordination with Python -- Ben Bangert
* Become a logging expert in 30 minutes -- Gavin M. Roy
* PyNES: Python programming for Nintendo 8 bits -- Guto Maia
* Purely Python Imaging with Pymaging -- Jonas Obrist
* Namespaces in Python -- Eric Snow

These are all set now: 

* IPython in-depth: high-productivity interactive and parallel python -- Fernando Perez, Brian Granger, Min RK
* Pyramid for Humans -- Paul Everitt
* Learn Python Through Public Data Hacking -- David Beazley
* Rethinking Errors: Learning from Scala and Go -- Bruce Eckel
