.. title: pyvideo status: June 21st, 2012
.. slug: status_20120621
.. date: 2012-06-21 09:55:34
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo

What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
videos on the Internet. For the most part, it's a collection of videos
from Python-related conferences. Saw a session you liked and want
to share it?  It's likely you can find it, watch it, and share it
with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

It's been a few months since my last status report. Two things have
happened and one thing hasn't.

1. `richard <https://github.com/willkg/richard>`_ development progresses
   and it's coming along nicely. There are a few more things I really
   want before I think it's got a critical mass. Then I think we should
   start doing releases.

2. `steve <https://github.com/willkg/steve>`_ development started and
   I'm adding functionality as I need it for adding conferences in
   `the queue <http://pyvideo.org/suggestions/>`_.

   Yes! We have a conferences-to-add queue in pyvideo now. And yes,
   the queue is long. steve makes it possible to add a conference of
   videos without doing them one-by-one.

   Also, if you have a conference you don't see on the site, please
   submit a suggestion to add it. There's a "Suggestion" link in
   the navbar.

So now for the thing that hasn't happened.

1. Universal Subtitles (now renamed Amara) stopped working with blip.tv
   videos a couple of months ago. I had hardcoded the embed code for
   all the blip.tv videos on pyvideo.org. Because of this, I have to
   go un-hardcode the embed code in order to get the videos to work
   on the site at all, and it's possible we'll lose all the work we did
   subtitling these videos.

This really bums me out, but I'm not really sure what to do about it.

That's where things are at. I essentially took a hiatus from curating
pyvideo.org while we implemented and fixed a bunch of stuff in richard
and while I set up the groundwork for steve. Those two are in a better
position now, so I'll be able to more easily go back to curating
pyvideo.org and fixing the various issues.
