.. title: pyvideo status: April 15th, 2012
.. slug: status_20120415
.. date: 2012-04-15 20:09:26
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo


What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index
of Python-related videos on the Internet.  For the most part, it's a
collection of videos from Python-related conferences.  Saw a session you
liked and want to share it?  It's likely you can find it, watch it, and
share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

I started `richard <http://github.com/willkg/richard>`_ in order to build
pyvideo.org. I threw it together in like 3 weeks and it had a lot of issues.
Since then, I've had a lot of help from Reiner Gerecke and the project is
moving along. There are a few more things I want before I consider richard
to have a critical mass sufficient to do a version release, but we're
pretty close. I'm pretty excited about that.

I updated pyvideo.org with the latest richard code today. I also spent some
time fixing the speaker data---it's still kind of screwy. Amongst other
things we had 3 Wesley Chuns! Now there is only one.

M.-A. Lemburg submitted two more conferences to get added for a grand total
of three in my queue now. I upstreamed some fixes to `vidscraper
<http://github.com/pculture/vidscraper>`_ a couple of weeks ago. Once we
land the API changes in richard, I'll be able to add new conferences much
more easily. Right now I have to do each video by hand... it's kind of a
drag.

Anyhow, things are going well, though the site looks the same and many of
the issues are still there. You'll just have to take my word for it for
now.

If you're interested in helping out, I sure could use you! Testing,
documenting, fixing the layout of some of the pages, implementing
new features, fixing project infrastructure---there are a lot of
different kinds of things you could help out with. Even looking through
the code and pointing out egregious issues---that's also very helpful
and very welcome.

Issue trackers are here:

* `pyvideo.org issue tracker <http://github.com/willkg/pmc/issues/>`_
* `richard issue tracker <http://github.com/willkg/richard/issues/>`_

Code is here:

* `richard code <http://github.com/willkg>`_
