.. title: pyvideo status: February 3rd, 2013
.. slug: status_20130203
.. date: 2013-02-03 15:00:00
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo


What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
conference and user-group videos on the Internet. Saw a session you
liked and want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it,
and share it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

* `Videos for PyCon AU 2012 <http://pyvideo.org/category/30/pycon-au-2012>`_
  are posted.

  That's probably the last conference I'm going to do on my own. More about
  that later.

* I've made some big changes to `richard <https://github.com/willkg/richard>`_.
  For one, formatted fields use Markdown instead of HTML now (yay!). I've
  improved the API. I've made a lot of layout tweaks and user interface
  improvements.

* I pushed out `steve v0.1 <https://steve.readthedocs.org/en/v0.1/>`_ and
  then promptly made a bunch of fixes, tweaks and changes. So I need to
  do a new release soon. steve is the utility people can use to generate
  conference data for pyvideo.org. See `the commandline chapter 
  <https://steve.readthedocs.org/en/v0.1/commandline.html>`_ for details.


I've been working on getting steve and richard to the point where I'm
neither doing all the work nor am I the bottleneck for work being done.

I still need to write up a blog post on how to use steve to generate JSON
files for pyvideo.org. That will make it possible for anyone to add
conference video.

I'm working on changing richard to allow for other people to edit
video metadata. It'll continue to be curated, but this will make it
possible for other people to help because there are like 1600 videos
and the repository continues to grow and I'm just one man. I have some
of this worked out on paper, but it needs to be implemented.

That's the current push. I'm hoping to have a lot of this done for
PyCon 2013.
