.. title: pyvideo status: August 19th, 2012
.. slug: status_20120819
.. date: 2012-08-19 13:56:10
.. tags: dev, python, richard, pyvideo

What is pyvideo.org
===================

`pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_ is an index of Python-related
videos on the Internet. For the most part, it's a collection of
videos from Python-related conferences. Saw a session you liked and
want to share it? It's likely you can find it, watch it, and share
it with pyvideo.org.


Status
======

I've been working with Carl from `NextDayVideo
<http://www.nextdayvideo.com/>`_ to get the API working so that he
can push straight from his system to `pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_
after he's done his post-processing for a conference. That'll mean that
conferences his company videos will make it to pyvideo a lot faster.
That's good because they video a lot of Python-related conferences.

In the process of doing that, I made a lot of headway on fixing the
`richard <https://github.com/willkg/richard/>`_ API and also
`steve <https://github.com/willkg/steve/>`_.

Wait, what? Who are all these people?

So, richard is the video index website software that runs pyvideo.org.
It has an admin that allows you to add videos one by one, but there's no
way to add a collection of videos and no way to batch-process videos.
Each conference is pretty different. I decided it would be far too 
time-consuming to write one web ui that could do everything I need if
only because I don't really know what I need because each conference is
different. Instead, I decided to write a command line utility and library
of utility functions that make it easy to script something for a specific
set of videos. That's steve.

Today I finished up enough of steve to do PyCon AU 2011. I'm also in the
middle of a couple of other conferences, but since PyCon AU 2012 is
happening right now, I figured I'd switch gears and finish that one first.
It took about 3 hours for 30 videos. That's not bad considering I spent
some of that time fixing bugs in steve.

Anyhow, this is a milestone in the whole richard/steve/pyvideo.org thing.


The future
==========

The future is that I don't want to be doing all this work. Going forward,
I want other people to use steve to build a bunch of JSON files that they
send to me. Then I'll curate that and add it to the site. In this way, it
spreads the work around and I don't have to do it all.

The future also allows anyone to suggest fixes to the data for videos that
are already on pyvideo.org in a way that I can go through a queue of these
fixes and approve/deny them quickly. In this way, we continue to have a
curated index of videos, but it's easy to suggest fixes and thus more likely
they'll happen.

Both of those are down the road, but definitely before the end of this year.

Both of those are really important because a single person can't run an
index of videos this size.

That's where things are at! I'll be working through the `conference backlog
<http://pyvideo.org/suggestions/videos>`_ slowly over the next few months.
