.. title: Observability Team Newsletter (2024q1)
.. slug: obs_2024q1
.. date: 2024-04-16 8:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: mozilla, work, socorro, tecken, eliot, sentry, dev

`Observability Team
<https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/428965889/Observability+Team>`__
is a team dedicated to the problem domain and discipline of Observability at
Mozilla.

We own, manage, and support monitoring infrastructure and tools supporting
Mozilla products and services. Currently this includes 
`Sentry <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/609845437/Sentry>`__
and crash ingestion related services 
(`Crash Stats (Socorro) <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/6849069/Crash+Stats+Crash+Reports+Crash+ingestion+Socorro+Antenna>`__,
`Mozilla Symbols Server (Tecken) <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/178061663/Symbols+aka+Tecken>`__,
and `Mozilla Symbolication Service (Eliot) <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/178192647/Symbolication+Eliot>`__).

In 2024, we'll be working with SRE to take over other monitoring services they
are currently supporting like New Relic, InfluxDB/Grafana, and others.

This newsletter covers an overview of 2024q1. Please forward it to interested
readers.


Highlights
==========

* 🤹 Observability Services: Change in user support
* 🏆 Sentry: Change in ownership
* ‼️ Sentry: Please don't start new trials
* ⏲️ Sentry: Cron monitoring trial ending April 30th
* ⏱️ Sentry: Performance monitoring pilot
* 🤖 Socorro: Improvements to Fenix support
* 🐛 Socorro: Support guard page access information

See details below.


Blog posts
==========

None this quarter.


Detailed project updates
========================

Observability Services: Change in user support
----------------------------------------------

We overhauled our pages in Confluence, started an #obs-help Slack channel,
created a new Jira OBSHELP project, built out a support rotation, and leveled
up our ability to do support for Observability-owned services.

See our `User Support Confluence page
<https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/605978960/Observability+Service+User+Support>`__
for:

* where to get user support
* documentation for common tasks (get protected data access, create a Sentry
  team, etc)
* self-serve instructions

Hop in `#obs-help in Slack
<https://app.slack.com/client/T027LFU12/C06N3QR11E0>`__ to ask for service
support, help with monitoring problems, and advice.


Sentry: Change in ownership
---------------------------

The Observability team now owns Sentry service at Mozilla!

We successfully completed `Phase 1 of the transition
<https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/browse/OBS-21>`__ in Q1. If you're a member
of the Mozilla Sentry organization, you should have received a separate email
about this to the `sentry-users
<https://groups.google.com/a/mozilla.com/g/sentry-users>`__ Google group.

We've overhauled Sentry user support documentation to improve it in a few ways:

* easier to find "how to" articles for common tasks
* best practices to help you set up and configure Sentry for your project needs

Check out our
`Sentry user guide <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/609452284/Sentry+User+Guide>`__.

There's still a lot that we're figuring out, so we appreciate your patience and
cooperation.


Sentry: Please don't start new trials
-------------------------------------

Sentry sends marketing and promotional emails to Sentry users which often
include links to start a new trial. Please contact us before starting any new
feature trials in Sentry.

Starting new trials may prevent us from trialing those features in the future
when we’re in a better position to evaluate the feature. There's no way for
admins to prevent users from starting a trial.


Sentry: Cron monitoring trial ending April 30th
-----------------------------------------------

The `Cron Monitoring <https://docs.sentry.io/product/crons/>`__ trial that was
started a couple of months ago will end April 30th.

Based on feedback so far and other factors, we will not be enabling this
feature once the trial ends.

This is a good reminder to build in redundancy in your monitoring systems.
Don't rely solely on trial or pilot features for mission critical information!

Once the trial is over, we'll put together an evaluation summary.


Sentry: Performance monitoring pilot
------------------------------------

`Performance Monitoring <https://docs.sentry.io/product/performance/>`__ is
being piloted by a couple of teams; it is not currently available for general
use.

In the meantime, if you are not one of these pilot teams, please do not use
Performance Monitoring. There is a shared transaction event quota for the
entire Mozilla Sentry organization. Once we hit that quota, events are dumped.

If you have questions about any of this, please reach out.

Once the trial is over, we'll put together an evaluation summary.


Socorro: Improvements to Fenix support
--------------------------------------

We worked on improvements to crash ingestion and the Crash Stats site for the
Fenix project:

`1812771: Fenix crash reporter's Socorro crash reports for Java exceptions have "Platform" = "Unknown" instead of "Android" <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1812771>`__

Previously, the platform would be "Unknown". Now the platform for Fenix crash
reports is "Android". Further, the ``platform_pretty_version`` includes the
Android ABI version.


.. thumbnail:: /images/obs_2024q1_android_version.png

   Figure 1: Screenshot of Crash Stats Super Search results showing Android
   versions for crash reports.


`1819628: reject crash reports for unsupported Fenix forks <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1819628>`__

Forks of Fenix outside of our control periodically send large swaths of crash
reports to Socorro. When these sudden spikes happened, Mozillians would spend
time looking into them only to discover they're not related to our code or our
users. This is a waste of our time and resources.

We implemented support for the ``Android_PackageName`` crash annotation and
added a throttle rule to the collector to drop crash reports from any
non-Mozilla releases of Fenix.

From 2024-01-18 to 2024-03-31, Socorro accepted 2,072,785 Fenix crash reports
for processing and rejected 37,483 unhelpful crash reports with this new rule.
That's roughly 1.7%. That's not a huge amount, but because they sometimes come
in bursts with the same signature, they show up in Top Crashers wasting
investigation time.


`1884041: fix create-a-bug links to work with java_exception <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1884041>`__

A long time ago, in an age partially forgotten, Fenix crash reports from a
crash in Java code would send a crash report with a ``JavaStackTrace`` crash
annotation. This crash annotation was a string representation of the Java
exception. As such, it was difficult-to-impossible to parse reliably.

In 2020, Roger Yang and Will Kahn-Greene spec'd out a new ``JavaException`` crash
annotation. The value is a JSON-encoded structure mirroring what Sentry uses
for exception information. This structure provides more information than the
``JavaStackTrace`` crash annotation did and is much easier to work with because we
don't have to parse it first.

Between 2020 and now, we have been transitioning from crash reports that only
contained a ``JavaStackTrace`` to crash reports that contained both a
``JavaStackTrace`` and a ``JavaException``. Once all Fenix crash reports from
crashes in Java code contained a ``JavaException``, we could transition Socorro
code to use the ``JavaException`` value for Crash Stats views, signature
generation, generate-create-bug-url, and other things.

Recently, Fenix dropped the ``JavaStackTrace`` crash annotation. However, we
hadn't yet gotten to updating Socorro code to use--and prefer--the
``JavaException`` values. This broke the ability to generate a bug for a Fenix
crash with the needed data added to the bug description.  Work on bug 1884041
fixed that.

Comments for Fenix Java crash reports went from:

::

    Crash report: https://crash-stats.mozilla.org/report/index/eb6f852b-4656-4cf5-8350-fd91a0240408

to:

::

    Crash report: https://crash-stats.mozilla.org/report/index/eb6f852b-4656-4cf5-8350-fd91a0240408

    Top 10 frames:

    0  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  nativePrepareStatement  SQLiteConnection.java:-2
    1  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  acquirePreparedStatement  SQLiteConnection.java:939
    2  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  executeForString  SQLiteConnection.java:684
    3  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  setJournalMode  SQLiteConnection.java:369
    4  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  setWalModeFromConfiguration  SQLiteConnection.java:299
    5  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  open  SQLiteConnection.java:218
    6  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnection  open  SQLiteConnection.java:196
    7  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnectionPool  openConnectionLocked  SQLiteConnectionPool.java:503
    8  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnectionPool  open  SQLiteConnectionPool.java:204
    9  android.database.sqlite.SQLiteConnectionPool  open  SQLiteConnectionPool.java:196

This both fixes the bug and also vastly improves the bug comments from what we
were previously doing with ``JavaStackTrace``.

Between 2024-03-31 and 2024-04-06, there were 158,729 Fenix crash reports
processed. Of those, 15,556 have the circumstances affected by this bug: a
``JavaException`` but don't have a ``JavaStackTrace``. That's roughly 10% of
incoming Fenix crash reports.

While working on this, we refactored the code that generates these crash report
bugs, so it's in a separate module that's easier to copy and use in external
systems in case others want to generate bug comments from processed crash data.

Further, we changed the code so that instead of dropping arguments in function
signatures, it now truncates them at 80 characters.

We're hoping to improve signature generation for Java crashes using
``JavaException`` values in 2024q2. That work is tracked in
`bug #1541120 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1541120>`__.


Socorro: Support guard page access information
----------------------------------------------

`1830954: Expose crashes which were likely accessing a guard page <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1830954>`__

We updated the stackwalker to pick up the changes for determining
``is_likely_guard_page``. Then we exposed that in crash reports in the
``has_guard_page_access`` field. We added this field to the Details tab in
crash reports and made it searchable. We also added this to the signature
report.

This helps us know if a crash is possibly due to a bug with memory access that
could be a possible security vulnerability vector--something we want to
prioritize fixing.

Since this field is security sensitive, it requires protected data access to
view and search with.


Socorro misc
------------

* `crashstats-tools 2.0.0 release <https://pypi.org/project/crashstats-tools/2.0.0/>`__
* `socorro-siggen 2.1.20240412 release <https://pypi.org/project/siggen/2.1.20240412/>`__
* 4 signature generation changes. Thank you Andrew McCreight and Jim Blandy!
* Maintenance and documentation improvements.
* 6 production deploys. Created 71 issues. Resolved 61 issues.


Tecken/Eliot misc
-----------------

* Maintenance and documentation improvements.
* 5 production deploys. Created 21 issues. Resolved 28 issues.


More information
================

Find us:

* Confluence page: `Observability Team <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/428965889/Observability+Team>`__
* User support hub: `User Support <https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CS1/pages/605978960/Observability+Service+User+Support>`__
* Support: `#obs-help <https://app.slack.com/client/T027LFU12/C06N3QR11E0>`__ (Slack)
* Crash ingestion: `#crashreporting <https://matrix.to/#/%23crashreporting:mozilla.org>`__ (Matrix)

Thank you for reading!
