.. title: mozilla status: April 15th, 2012
.. slug: status_20120415
.. date: 2012-04-15 20:35:57
.. tags: work, mozilla, sumo, elasticsearch, pyvideo, richard


I haven't had time to blog much in the last few months.
At work, I've been spending all my time with
`elasticsearch <http://www.elasticsearch.org/>`_, 
`elasticutils <https://github.com/mozilla/elasticutils>`_,
and `SUMO <https://github.com/mozilla/kitsune>`_ bug fixing.
I've been working on the conversion from Sphinx search to elasticsearch
for SUMO since I started at Mozilla, but I've only recently felt like I'm
really getting the hang of it. There are a bunch of elasticutils-related
things I want to blog about, but those will come in fugure entries.

In my spare time, I've been working on `richard
<https://github.com/willkg/richard>`_. This project has nothing to do with
Richard of `air mozilla fame <https://wiki.mozilla.org/Air_Mozilla>`_,
but rather is a video indexing web application. It's the software that
runs `pyvideo.org <http://pyvideo.org/>`_.

pyvideo.org has the distinction of being the first Django application I've
built from the ground up. That distinction is both a virtue (yay for first
apps!) and a vice (boo for silly things I did when doing it!).

The one thing I did that I'm really proud of is that when building the
software, I knew I needed help if it was to succeed and thus I worked to
make it easy and inviting for contributors to get involved:

* I wrote documentation: license file, README, documentation covering how to
  install it for hacking, how to contribute, where to find me, ...
* I parked the code on GitHub to make it easier for people to access. [1]_
* I made sure there were a series of issues in the issue tracker that
  showed the next round of things that needed to be done.
* I made sure I had an IRC channel and that people knew where to find me
  to ask questions.
* I quickly got the documentation built on ReadTheDocs.
* I had a test infrastructure set up. [2]_
* I respond to everyone who sends an email, creates a pull request, writes
  an issue, says hi on IRC, ...

The end result of that is that there are 4 contributors to richard including
myself and one of them is very active.

`Asheesh <http://asheesh.org/>`_ did a talk at
`LibrePlanet 2012 <http://libreplanet.org/wiki/LibrePlanet2012>`_ that
mentioned `Mako <http://mako.cc/>`_'s power law of contributions to open
source projects. The gist of it is that most open source projects only ever
have one contributor. [3]_

Well, I've got 5 on my video index web application software that I "launched"
a month ago. I'm feeling good about that.

.. [1] Several of my friends point out that GitHub kind of takes the D out of
   DVCS.
.. [2] Though didn't have any tests when I "launched".
.. [3] I may fix this paragraph after Asheesh corrects me.
