.. title: Python Miro Community status: 01-22-2011
.. slug: status_20110122
.. date: 2011-01-22 16:31:12
.. tags: pmc, dev, miro, mirocommunity, python, work

I took a hiatus from all things computer-related from the end of
November through December on account of a new member of the family
showing up. I'm back now and I've slimmed down the list of things I'm
involved in so that things like Python Miro Community can get more of my
spare time.

**What is Python Miro Community?**

Before I get too much further, `Python Miro
Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org/>`__ is a web-site that
indexes Python-related videos regardless of where those videos exist on
the Internet. For the most part, we're collecting and indexing
conference videos: PyCon, DjangoCon, KiwiPycon, PyOhio, PyCon AU, ....
For each video I pull as much metadata as I can. This makes the videos
searchable and more useful for people looking for stuff.

**Added KiwiPyCon 2009 videos**

Over the last week, I pulled in the KiwiPyCon 2009 videos. I also talked
with Tim about KiwiPyCon 2010 videos. I'm looking forward to posting
those as well. I don't know what the estimated timeframe looks like,
yet.

**Current queue of things to do**

My queue of things to do is pretty much the same as it was :doc:`in
November <status_20101101>`:

* checking feeds for valid enclosures
* importing a few lightning talks I've been sitting on
* DjangoConf EU
* Kiwi PyCon
* PyCon APAC 2010
* PyCon India
* fixing video listing templates so they're all listing videos the
  "long way"
* converting `Python
  Basics <http://python.mirocommunity.org/listing/tag/python-basics/>`__
  and `Advanced
  Python <http://python.mirocommunity.org/listing/tag/python-advanced/>`__
  to playlists
* keeping an eye on `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__--looking forward to
  adding that to the site

Writing scripts for automated data checking turns out to be impossible
to do without getting some additional functionality into `Miro
Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__. I've created some bugs for the
features I need, but I think I'm going to have to implement them myself
on account of the MC crew being very short-staffed. That's fine, except
I haven't had time to do it, yet.

One thing in that list that I'm really excited about is adding support
for `Universal Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. I think
that'll:

#. kick ass
#. potentially add a lot of value to the conference video

**Going to need to get some funding**

Also, `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ is soon switching
to a tiered service model. Between costs for running PMC going up (zero
dollars per month to some amount per month) and PMC really needing more
of my time, I'm considering doing a fund-raising month possibly with a
`KickStarter <http://kickstarter.com/>`__ project. The other possibility
is to add ads to the site, but I'm pretty sick of advertising and I
can't imagine any of you like it much either. If you have any thoughts
on that, let me know.

**Exciting things**

I'm seeing an increasing number of hits coming from
`StackOverflow <http://stackoverflow.com/>`__. I think it's really
exciting that people are helping other people learn by sending them
links to videos.

That's it for this status report!
