.. title: PyOhio 2010 videos posted to Python Miro Community
.. slug: status_20100812
.. date: 2010-08-12 13:47:27
.. tags: pmc, python, dev, miro, work, mirocommunity

Last night, I spent a few hours going through all the videos from
`PyOhio 2010 <http://www.pyohio.org/Home>`__, added metadata from the
PyOhio site, added notes about video issues, and approved all of the
videos except one which I'm talking with Carl about.

It looks like PyOhio 2010 was a really great conference: the talks are
really great, you can feel the energy in the rooms from the people who
attended, the questions are interesting, and the videos from the
conference are fantastic. Also, I'm a huge +1 on using the headset
mics--they absolutely make a difference in being able to hear the
presenter throughout the video.

Here are three sessions I watched all the way through:

* **Teach Me Python Bugfixing** -
  http://python.mirocommunity.org/video/1794/pyohio-2010-teach-me-python-bu
  This session walks new people through how to contribute to Python
  core. It's worth watching for new contributors. I also think this is
  useful for illustrating the barriers to entry and required workflow
  knowledge for new contributors.
* **PyPy and Unladen-Swallow: Making your Python Fast** -
  http://python.mirocommunity.org/video/1804/pyohio-2010-pypy-and-unladen-s
  Alex did a
  `test-run <http://python.mirocommunity.org/video/1784/pypy-and-unladen-swallow-makin>`__
  of this talk at `ChiPy <http://chipy.org/>`__. I studied programming
  languages and compilers in grad school and find these talks really
  interesting. I liked the analysis of "slow" in respects to the
  language and the cpython implementation--it's towards the beginning.
* **Wrangling the bits, standardizing how apps get built** -
  http://python.mirocommunity.org/video/1789/pyohio-2010-wrangling-the-bits
  This covers things in virtualenv I didn't know where there. It also
  talks about
  `modern-package-template <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/modern-package-template>`__
  which I didn't know existed and fabric which I haven't played with
  before. Rick also mentions searching Google Code for "after_install"
  and "fabfile" for virtualenv and fabric usage examples. He says
  there's a wealth of code snippets in there. I watched the session and
  immediately started adjusting my scripts. This session had mic
  problems and the session starts at 7:20. I'm working with Carl to get
  the first 7:20 clipped.

Sessions from PyOhio 2010 are in the `PyOhio 2010
category <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/pyohio-2010>`__. Take
some time today to browse the sessions and watch the ones that interest
you.

Also, I'm sitting on videos for two other conferences: DjangoConf EU and
Kiwi PyCon. I'm hoping to get to them in the next couple of weeks. I did
PyOhio 2010 videos last night because Carl needed someone to spot-check
them to make sure the uploads were good.
