.. title: Python Miro Community status: October 20th, 2011
.. slug: status_20111020
.. date: 2011-10-20 11:39:29
.. tags: pmc, dev, mirocommunity, python


What is Python Miro Community
=============================

`Python Miro Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org>`_ is an index
of Python-related videos on the Internet.  For the most part, it's a
collection of videos from Python-related conferences.  Saw a session you
liked and want to share it?  It's likely you can find it and share it
with Python Miro Community.


Status
======

I've finished posting
`DjangoCon 2011 <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/djangocon-2011>`_
videos.

They're all set up to be transcribed and translated.  If you have spare time,
please think about taking the time to transcribe your favorite presentation.
If it's transcribed already and you can translate it, please translate it.

I'm keeping track of transcription/translation status now.

I fixed the RSS links for categories so that if you subscribe to that RSS
feed, it has the complete category in it--not just the most recent 30 videos.
If you're using a podcast client and are subscribed to one of the category
feeds, please fix the feed url in your podcast client.

I've got `PyCon AU 2011 <http://pycon-au.org/>`_ in the queue.  In fact, I
have an actual queue now maintained in the
`PMC GitHub issue tracker <https://github.com/willkg/pmc/issues>`_.  That
includes other things that need to be fixed in the site or in my scripts
that help me maintain the site.
