.. title: Python Miro Community status: 11-01-2010
.. slug: status_20101101
.. date: 2010-11-01 20:31:03
.. tags: pmc, python, dev, miro, work, mirocommunity

Last status update was in August and now it's November. I can't believe
how fast the time is flying by.

Last month, I imported the `DjangoCon
2010 <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/djangocon-2010>`__
videos. That took a while. I might still be sitting on a lightning talk,
but for the most part, they're all there.

Today, Tom sent me an email pointing out that the enclosures in the
`PyCon 2010 <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/pycon2010>`__ feed
weren't working. I spent an hour looking into the problem and cobbling
together a script to link check all the enclosures. I discovered that
there were a lot of problems. I balked at the workload and I sent an
email to the pycon-av list to get some help. Carl pointed me at the code
he uses for conference video post-production which allowed me to tweak
my script and fix everything myself. As of now, the enclosures for the
PyCon 2010 feed should be valid.

Valid feeds are really important because they allow you to use a podcast
client to download the videos. That makes it easier for you to watch it
on devices that are convenient to you. That's an important method of
access. I'll be running my new feed checker script on other conferences
and feeds on the site and fixing problems I discover.

In the queue of things to do:

* checking feeds for valid enclosures
* importing a few lightning talks I've been sitting on
* DjangoConf EU
* Kiwi PyCon
* PyCon APAC 2010
* PyCon India
* fixing video listing templates so they're all listing videos the
  "long way"
* converting `Python
  Basics <http://python.mirocommunity.org/listing/tag/python-basics/>`__
  and `Advanced
  Python <http://python.mirocommunity.org/listing/tag/python-advanced/>`__
  to playlists
* keeping an eye on `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__--looking forward to
  adding that to the site

We pushed out `Miro 3.5 <http://getmiro.com/>`__, so I should have some
more time I can spend on Python Miro Community things to clear out the
queue.

One last thing, I'd like to send a big welcome to Asheesh who's taken
over `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ development. He also
works on `OpenHatch <http://openhatch.org/>`__ which is a site designed
to connect new contributors looking for fun projects to work on with
FLOSS projects that need help. It's exciting to have him on board at
`PCF <http://pculture.org/>`__.

And that's where things are at!
