.. title: Python Miro Community status: 06-25-2010
.. slug: status_20100625
.. date: 2010-06-25 11:05:13
.. tags: pmc, python, dev, work, miro, mirocommunity

I spent 20 or so hours over the last few weeks working through the
moderator queue for `Python Miro
Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org/>`__ and making changes to
the site. We've almost posted all of the PyCon 2010 videos--I think
there are three or four more still in the queue including one of the
lightning talks.

I've created a bunch of bugs in the `Miro Community bug
tracker <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=Miro+Community&content=>`__
for bugs that I've encountered and enhancements that would make the site
and curation of the site better. Miro Community is a Free Software
project, so I'm hoping to find free time to fix/implement some of those.

Carl Karsten is now a curator on the site--that makes two of us. He's
been a huge help so far. Having someone to bounce ideas off of makes it
a lot easier and he brings a lot of enthusiasm to the site. Right now
we're coordinating things through email and we're tentatively going to
use the pycon-av mailing list for PMC discussion. If we need to switch
to another mailing list, then we'll do that.

At Carl's suggestion, we added a new category of categories for Python
user groups. The three groups we have listed now are
`ChiPy <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/chipy>`__ (Chicago,
IL), `BostonPy <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/bostonpy>`__
(Boston, MA), and
`PyAtl <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/pyatl>`__ (Atlanta,
GA). The PyAtl videos are mostly from last year--I need to catch up with
a PyAtl member to find out what's going on. There are only two BostonPy
videos now, but the group is interested in doing more. The ChiPy videos
are fantastic. Additionally, Pior from Montreal-Python is working on
getting their video workflow working--I really look forward to seeing
their sessions.

I've been tagging videos that I think are good for Python beginners with
the tag "python-basics". At some point in the near future, we're going
to move some/all of those videos into a `Learning
Python <http://python.mirocommunity.org/category/learning-python>`__
category. There's a large amount of decent introductory material for
Python out there ranging from videos on YouTube to tutorials at PyCon. I
think this category will make it easier for people new to Python to get
their feet wet quickly and easily.

On a slightly related note, the `Universal
Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__ project recently `launched
an alpha
demo <http://blog.universalsubtitles.org/2010/06/16/launching-an-alpha-demo-of-our-subtitling-tool/>`__
of their system. I'm looking forward to this project reaching a stable
status since I'm planning to use it on PMC to add subtitle/transcription
to all videos on Python Miro Community. The project is in Django and
it's Free Software. If you're interested in this work, `they sure could
use the
help <http://blog.universalsubtitles.org/2010/06/22/developers-interested-in-contributing-to-universal-subtitles/>`__.

That's it for this status report. Any thoughts, questions or
concerns--let me know.
