.. title: Python Miro Community status: July 16th, 2011
.. slug: status_20110716
.. date: 2011-07-16 22:06:14
.. tags: pmc, dev, miro, mirocommunity, python, work


It's been a while since the last status post on the status of
`Python Miro Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org/>`_.
The reasons are many, but mostly because I've been blocked on
other things and hadn't really finished anything.  Boo.

To recap, Python Miro Community is a curated index of Python-related
video from around the Internet including Python-related conference
sessions.  Catch the sessions you missed, show sessions to your colleagues,
and remind yourself why you really want to be attending these
conferences in person.

Anyhow, it's been a slow few months.  Most of the `PyCon 2011 
<http://us.pycon.org/>`_ videos are posted with the exceptions of the
lightning talks which I still have to watch and fill out the descriptions
for.

Miro Community released 1.2.1 which allows me to do rss feeds that exceed
the 30-video maximum they have.  That allows me to run my script which
verifies download urls.  The PyCon 2011 category was fine.

The PyCon 2010 category was not fine.  Of the 120 videos in the category,
over 60 of them had bad download urls.  This really bothers me.  I don't
know why the urls are going sour.  I've fixed all the ones in the PyCon
2011 category and will monitor them going forward periodically.

I still need to go through the other categories.

Carl kicked me into using `GitHub
<http://github.com/>`_ for PMC related things.  That's at
`https://github.com/willkg/pmc <https://github.com/willkg/pmc>`_.
I'm slowly (very slowly) adding scripts I use to run the site as well
as documentation covering workflow and other things.  Going forward,
I'll be using GitHub to coordinate and organize everything.

The other thing I need to do is move my todo items from my org-mode file
over to the issues tracker.  That'll make it easier for other people to
help if they're so inclined.

That's where things are at.
