.. title: Python Miro Community status: 05-01-2010
.. slug: status_20100501
.. date: 2010-05-01 21:23:30
.. tags: pmc, python, dev, work, miro, mirocommunity

I spent a few hours with the Python Miro Community site today
re-applying the template changes I made to the theme to the new version
of the theme. Miro Community has released two versions since I tweaked
the theme, so I was playing catch-up. I'm putting my edits into version
control this time around so I don't lose them again (silly silly silly).

One of the things I want to do with Python Miro Community is to build
playlists of videos covering a specific theme for helping people come up
to speed with those areas: testing in Python, basic Python programming,
advanced Python programming, ... I've been faking this using tags, but
it's pretty suboptimal because I can't control the order the videos get
listed in on the tag listing page. Dean created `bug
12627 <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12627>`__ for
implemnting playlists/series. This would also fix the problem I have
where YouTube duration maximums force a single "video" to span several
YouTube urls and thus be several separated videos. Anyhow, looks like
that isn't going to get implemented for Miro Community 1.0.

I started slogging through the queue. We've got 80 videos or so in the
approve/reject queue right now. A bunch of them are PyCon 2010 related.
A bunch are from Carl's blip.tv feed and are from ChiPy and other
things. 50 or so are from a Plone feed that Nate Aune sent me. I'm going
to make a concerted effort to get through the queue over the next couple
of weeks.

Even though I'm behind in the queue, I encourage people to submit new
videos. Some of the best material comes from Python user groups--I'd
really like to see more groups videoing their sessions, posting them
online, and submitting them to PMC. Don't let ChiPy and PyAtl outshine
everyone else!

You can find Python Miro Community at http://python.mirocommunity.org/.
