.. title: Python Miro Community status: September 23rd, 2011
.. slug: status_20110923
.. date: 2011-09-23 09:51:05
.. tags: pmc, dev, mirocommunity, python


What is Python Miro Community
=============================

`Python Miro Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org>`_ is an index
of Python-related videos on the Internet.  For the most part, it's a
collection of videos from Python-related conferences.  Saw a session you
liked and want to share it?  It's likely you can find it and share it
with Python Miro Community.


Status
======

The last month and a half have been pretty banal.  There have been
several conferences (`DjangoCon 2011 <http://djangocon.us/>`_,
`PyConAU 2011 <http://pycon-au.org/>`_, ...), but I haven't had time to pull
in video, yet.  I started to look at things earlier this week and was met
with a bunch of Miro Community problems.

First, looks like either Blip.tv did something weird with their feeds or
Miro Community decided to stop filtering duplicates, so there are currently
over 500 videos in the review queue many of which are on the site already.
I have no good way to figure out which are duplicates, though, so I'm going
to write a script to make that possible/easier.

Second, videos from PyCon 2011 and PyOhio 2011 that had been "universal
subtitle-ized" were exceeding the width allotted to the video.  I've fixed
this before, but I didn't remember how I did it and I decided this time
around that I'd just change the layout of the page instead.  Now the video
can take up as much width as it wants (which is good for other reasons, too)
and I nixed bits of the page that Python Miro Community doesn't use.

Irksome that things keep breaking, but that's the way it goes.  I'm
sorry I didn't catch the latter one sooner.


Universal Subtitles status
==========================

Carl was curious as to how many videos had been transcribed of the two 
conferences we've added Universal Subtitles support for.  I wrote a
script to go through the PyCon 2011 videos and PyOhio 2011 videos and
figure out how many of them have been transcribed and translated with
`Universal Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org>`_.

:PyCon 2011: 3 videos fully transcribed, 1 video partially transcribed, some minor translation work
:PyOhio 2011: 3 videos partially transcribed

I'm disappointed.  It was a lot of work to get those videos working with
Universal Subtitles.  It sucked that it took me so long to post them and it's
probably the case we lost some of the energy because of that.  But I was
hoping we'd have better results anyways.

Carl wants to try one more time with DjangoCon 2011 and this time be more
proactive and email the presenters.  If that doesn't work, then I'm not
sure what we can do.  I can't spend the time to transcribe all the talks.
Neither can Carl.  We could pay someone to do it, but that costs money and
I don't think anyone is interested in paying for that.  Thus if we con't
share the workload as a community, I'm probably going to ditch the
Universal Subtitles support for now because it's a lot of work to put
together.  Maybe we can try it again some day.


PMC in GitHub
=============

I'm putting scripts, template fixes, and other Python Miro Community related
things in Github: http://github.com/willkg/pmc

I'm not sure how interesting it is outside of PMC, but it's there if you're
interested.
