.. title: 2.5.3 coming soon--I promise!
.. slug: 2.5.3_coming_soon
.. date: 2009-10-14 15:52:49
.. tags: miro, work

The Miro 2.5 series has been a total pain in the ass--I'm not going to
lie. Not only has it infuriated a number of users, but it's been like a
Sysaphusian struggle for the team.

Right now there are 3 developers (Ben, Luc and myself) and 1 QA person
(Janet) that work on Miro fulltime. Then we have a large community of
testers, translators, and a handful of people who send in patches to fix
the problems that irk them most. Even with this large community, the
majority of the development, testing and support is done by 4 people.

In the last three months, Janet's house was hit by lightning frying a
bunch of her testing machines; I bought a house and moved (along with
the build boxes); Ben went on vacation for a month; Luc bought an
apartment, moved, and then had his Internet connection totally hosed for
a month; I had unforeseen medical problems (that I don't really want to
talk about), that resulted in me being offline for the last two weeks;
and our ssl certificates expired.

This week is the first time since the beginning of August when we've had
all 4 of us working.

We've been trying so hard to get a much-needed 2.5.3 release out. It has
a slew of fixes that should alleviate an array of problems that users
have been experiencing. We're finally on the verge of the release. I
hope it'll happen today or tomorrow.

I really appreciate the patience many of you have had with us as we
scrambled to do the impossible over the last couple of months. I really
wish it could have happened differently, but it's as if the forces of
nature were completely against us.

Though 2.5.3 should fix a variety of issues, we're working on
re-architecting some portions of Miro that aren't working well with the
database changes we made in Miro 2.5. On top of that, we're working on
subtitle support, extensions, and continuing to make Miro a better
experience for a larger group of people. Some/most/all of this will show
up in Miro 2.6 and 2.7, hopefully in the next few months.
