.. title: Dev call 9/1/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100901
.. date: 2010-09-01 11:16:13
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* working on fixing up video conversion issues
* working on cleaning things up

Miro Community 1.1.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.1>`__)

* released!

Miro Community 1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.2>`__)

* starting the new development cycle

Paul:

* worked on Miro Community 1.1.1 with added admin functionality and bug
  fixes
* updated sites on PCF7 to use the same database system the other sites
  are using; should reduce load on that server and make things better

Janet:

* working on regression testing for Miro 3.5
* Miro 3.5 is looking good
* Universal Subtitles is in a state of flux that's hard to test
* working on moving tests to selenium and doing nightly test runs
* looking at `Sikuli <http://groups.csail.mit.edu/uid/sikuli/>`__

Luc:

* worked on Miro 3.5 bugs
* fixed memory leaks that happened on OSX; fixed subtitle track display
* working on crash when switching between site tabs
* worked on subtitles freeze bug, but it seems like that's a problem in
  Perian

Ben:

* worked on httpauth overhaul
* worked on password-protected proxy support

Will:

* rebuilt libtorrent 0.14.11 with VC++ 9.0 (VS 2008)
* helped move infrastructure from PCF2 to new server
* did a pass through Miro bugs on the Fedora system, added comments,
  fixed some issues
* started peer reviewing conversions code

Order of business

* We talked about where we're at with Miro 3.5 development and what's
  left to finish up. We re-prioritized some things.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.
* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 20 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
