.. title: Dev call June 15th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110615
.. date: 2011-06-15 20:07:50
.. tags: miro, work


**Miro status**

* `4.0.2 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0.2>`_
* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* we're going to keep working on Miro 4.0.2 for another week or two
* we're starting work on Miro 4.1

Ben:

* Worked on problematic bugs for 4.0.2.
* Hoping to have an RC on Thursday or Friday.


Janet:

* Working on regression tests and testing bug fixes that have been
  going in over the last couple of weeks.


Will:

* Moving along on the Windows overhaul.  Took a step back to make sure
  I had all my ducks in a row in regards to knowing exactly the
  situation I'm in and what the options are.
* Spent some time looking at issues people were having.


Paul:

* On vacation last week.
* Worked on speed issues with device support.
* Worked on Miro Community bits.


Geoffrey:

* Worked on issues for 4.0.2.


Kaz:

* Worked on support for MusicBrainz/EchoNest.


Jonas:

* Worked on gzip support for feeds.
* Worked on some other things for 4.0.2.


**Order of business:**

* Talked about the 4.0.2 timeline.
* Talked about specifics of some issues people were having.
* Talked about MusicBrainz/EchoNest support.

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .


**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 58 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 7 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 25 bugs marked FIXED
