.. title: Dev call 9/22/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100922
.. date: 2010-09-22 11:24:35
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* focusing on P1 issues and trying to get the release done--almost
  there

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* focusing on small bugs that should get fixed before the long haul for
  1.2.

Will:

* synced translations
* worked on Miro 3.5 bugs
* wrote a script to figure out contributors; still need to add Janet's
  QA team (need to do manually), add translators (scrape launchpad?),
  other contributors?
* worked on ubuntu packaging and clearing out issues

Ben:

* worked on Miro 3.5 bugs

Paul:

* worked on a bunch of Miro and MC things

Janet:

* tested the Windows installers
* tested bug fixes and regression tested for Miro 3.5

Order of business:

* Miro 4 plans:

  * need clarification on cd/dvd ripping and bonjour/rondevous thing
    where miro can broadcast to a device where it can stream or
    download files
  * work might get split into two or more releases

* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html.
  If there are bugs you want fixed that aren't in our queue, consider
  submitting a patch.
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 36 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 25 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked DUPLICATE
