.. title: Dev call 01/19/2011
.. slug: devcall_20110119
.. date: 2011-01-19 11:38:53
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Will:

* upgraded libtorrent 0.15.5
* will work on gstreamer switch next

Ben:

* continuing to work on performance fixes--wrote a bunch of unit tests
  and now it's a matter of integrating it into the widget frontend

Geoffrey:

* looking into Bonjour on Windows. Apple ships a big metapackage
  (printing services) that includes the core libraries. Pidgin open
  source project advises you to install the library.
* looking at ways to detect whether the user has installed the printing
  services.
* started looking into transcoding and working through the technical
  issues.
* going to start wrapping things up in the daap branch and get ready to
  merge it into master.

Paul:

* fixed a bunch of item-overhaul related bugs.
* added amazon store support

Janet:

* sent out a hitlist of bugs that should get fixed to make testing
  easier
* sikuli is the awesome!

Asheesh:

* sprint on MC 1.2 stuff
* sprint on Duke bug fixing
* planning to focus on performance issues

Kaz:

* worked on the view menu which is basically working

Official business:

* Should we switch Miro on Windows to use gstreamer? Worth trying out
  and if it gets too hard, we can defer it.
* Should we switch Miro on Windows to use webkit? Worth trying out and
  if it gets too hard, we can defer it.
* Talked about short-term solutions for keeping us all on the same
  page. Worth doing a check-in/check-out on IRC using a tag.
* Talked about moving our git repositories elsewhere. Benefits are that
  we don't have to host it and deal with hosting work. Asheesh is going
  to look into this.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 35 bugs/feature-requests created
* 5 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
* 5 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 19 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
