.. title: Dev call March 30th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110330
.. date: 2011-03-30 12:15:54
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is stabilizing
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* probably a release in May or June--we're working hard on it!

Will:

* Spent most of the time on BD. Long drama, but it should be fine now.
  I spent most of the time addressing privacy issues, but also did some
  restructuring as well.
* Worked on upsizing issues with conversions. Pretty sure I have it
  fixed, but since the changes are pervasive, I want to do more
  testing. I didn't have to do anything outlandish like I had feared
  last week, so that's good.

Paul:

* spent some time fixing Miro Guide issues, mostly django errors
* worked on P1 bugs, mostly ui stuff

Jonas:

* continued working on P1 bugs
* added support for hex-encoded magnet URIs

Geoffrey:

* working on P1 bugs, particularly ui bugs

Ben:

* working on P1 bugs
* finished up keyboard shortcut issues--should be pretty solid now

Janet:

* spent a bunch of time with sikuli tests and Miro
* worked on testing Universal Subtitles
* working on testing things and writing new tests so we continue to
  increase the regression tests

Order of business:

* Talked about where we're at with Miro 4.0. Lot of newly created bugs
  over the last week, but we're pretty much done with new features.
  Seems like we're just working on bugs now. Getting close to a point
  where we could do a release candidate.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are probably unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made. If you're interested in testing, but don't want to test
  bleeding edge, then it's worth waiting until we hit the release
  candidate portion of the dev cycle. We're currently thinking that'll
  be in a couple of weeks.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 80 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 3 bugs marked INVALID
* 2 bugs marked ---
* 12 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 54 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
