.. title: Dev call March 9th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110309
.. date: 2011-03-09 13:17:22
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* past the codefreeze--switching to mini-deadlines for important
  functionality.

Ben:

* got a lot of ui overhaul stuff done: main display, item details
  widget
* lot of other things to work on

Paul:

* worked on ui overhaul stuff: top chrome, sidebar tweaks, and
  investigating complex issues
* working on Amazon stores-related things

Geoffrey:

* picked up OSX titlebar bug
* worked on sharing issues and tidying up the code

Kaz:

* worked on tablist issues and list view columns

Will:

* worked on windows build environment issues
* fixed up a bunch of P1 bugs, synced translations, ...

Jonas:

* worked on magnet uri support and landed it today
* worked on resume playback changes

Asheesh:

* worked on paypal payment system for MC tiers
* worked on the POV theme

Order of business:

* Talked about associating Miro with magnet uris; the problem is that
  magnet uris require a protocol association, so there's nothing in
  Miro that currently does this. The other problem is that the
  different platforms have different conventions for associations.
  Jonas is going to create a few tickets and we'll figure out what to
  do going forward.
* We're pushing on P1 bugs--going to give mini-deadlines a break for a
  week.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 134 bugs/feature-requests created
* 6 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 8 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 3 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 73 bugs marked FIXED
