.. title: Dev call 01/05/2011
.. slug: devcall_20110105
.. date: 2011-01-05 11:41:52
.. tags: miro, work

Welcome to 2011!

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Geoffrey:

* continued working on pydaap--streaming is working now
* working on getting Miro and Miro Video Converter into the Mac app
  store
* wrote up a long missive regarding signal and concurrency issues

Kaz:

* worked on automatic ratings based on play/skip counts
* worked on coverart extraction from metadata
* worked on views and other things, too

Asheesh:

* merged Duke code into main so we're not working on two different Miro
  Community code bases
* finishing up tiers

Paul:

* worked on refactoring Item code so there's more shared code between
  Item and DeviceItem to make it easier for other data sources
* worked on handling generic devices

Will:

* Worked on a bunch of analysis stuff.
* Started tackling the flashscraper -> vidscraper project.
* Feeling kind of overwhelmed with how much is going on and what's on
  his plate.

Ben:

* Worked on GtkTreeModel performance issues when displaying and
  manipulating item views.

Order of business:

* Morgan is almost done with new ui mockups.
* Talked about how to do ui workflow and whether to have one person do
  all the ui implementation or spread it out.
* Elected chiefs of various domains:

  * Electing Ben as Chief Architect.
  * Electing Geoffrey as Chief OSX wrangler
  * Electing Kaz as Chief Linux wrangler
  * Electing Will as Chief infrastructure wrangler (unit tests,
    localizations, bugzilla, wiki,
  * Electing Will as Chief Windows wrangler
  * Electing Janet as Chief of QA
  * Electing Paul as Chief of Everything Else

* Talked about GtkTreeModel performance issues.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 29 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
* 4 bugs marked INVALID
