.. title: Dev call August 31st, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110831
.. date: 2011-08-31 23:03:49
.. tags: miro, work


**Miro status**

* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* We're working on Miro 4.1.

Will:

* talked with Janet about translations
* worked on gtk/gstreamer overhaul


Geoffrey:

* working on sharing feeds and podcasts--now merged
* fixed some bugs in Miro


Janet:

* testing devices
* talked with Nick about working out what 4.1 will look like
* worked on figuring out the future of the build boxes


Jonas:

* worked on WinSparkle-related changes


Kaz:

* fixing problems with the metadata extractor


Ben:

* away for a few days
* working on getting the gtk/gstreamer overhaul stuff Will did
  running.  gstreamer on Windows seems to require directshow and that
  somehow requires 3d support which sucks on VirtualBox.
* will continue working on gtk/gstreamer overhaul
* will continue working on itemfilter branch


**Order of business:**

* We might do a 4.0.4, but only to fix issues with Miro Mobile.

* Talked about future of build boxes.  Janet's been working on a wiki
  page for it at:
  http://develop.participatoryculture.org/index.php/BuildBoxHosting

* Talked about process questions:

  * moving the Miro repository to Github

    * Will and Paul will work on moving the Miro repository to Github

  * Ben wants to start doing one-on-one developer chats

  * we want to change workflows to require more peer review

    * Ben will create a peer review qiki page

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .
