.. title: Dev call April 20th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110420
.. date: 2011-04-20 12:40:21
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* things are stabilizing--if you've been waiting to test nightlies,
  now's a good time to jump in

Paul:

* worked on Miro P1 fixes
* working on Miro Guide and adding additional podcasts to the guide
* will be spending some time on Miro Community going forward

Jonas:

* worked on P1 ui-related issues
* wrote a Magent URI design doc

Geoffrey:

* worked on P1 ui-related and sharing-related issues

Kaz:

* caught up with P1 bugs
* going to spend time making metadata extraction unit tests

Ben:

* worked on P1 bugs
* going to work with Kaz on metadata extraction issues

Will:

* updated the PCF bug triage tool -- greasemonkey is so easy!
* tested Miro on Vista and Windows 7 and it's looking decent
* synced translations and worked on preventing spam in the wiki

Order of business:

* Several of us spent some time hunting for good quality podcast
  directories and other than the iTunes directory and Miro Guide, there
  isn't anything out there.
* Talked about when we're going to call this release done, when we're
  going to do a code freeze, and how we prioritize things over the next
  week.
* Talked about using the severity field to denote critical/blocker and
  everything else.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 70 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
* 10 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 80 bugs marked FIXED
* 5 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
