.. title: Dev call 10/27/2010
.. slug: devcall_20101027
.. date: 2010-10-27 12:32:32
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* done!

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* we're going to wait a while to figure out whether we need to do a
  3.5.1 or whether we can sit on it for a while.
* we're now pushing on 4.0

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* Asheesh is the new MC for MC
* working on bugs

Janet:

* pushed Miro 3.5 out
* worked on conversions matrix
* working on ffmpeg issues on OSX

Will:

* pushed Miro 3.5 out
* updated the Miro User Manual
* updated ubuntu packaging scripts
* worked on trac to mediawiki work

Paul:

* worked on syncing support; all basic functionality is implemented on
  all platforms now
* now working on interface bits and figuring out how to sync feeds

Kaz:

* worked on implementing metadata discovery, storage and ui for it

Ben:

* worked on performance changes for making startup, switching tabs and
  other ui things faster

Geoff:

* worked through OSX bugs in Bugzilla and triaging/fixing them
* fixed issues with unicode/str issues with file paths

Asheesh:

* worked on making the Facebook login more featureful for Miro
  Community
* spent a bunch of time chasing down an IE8 bug that then disappeared
* planning to continue working on Facebook login issues

**Order of business:**

* Welcome to Geoffrey!
* We're pretty psyched to have gotten Miro 3.5 out the door.
* Talked about id3 metadata bits and storage.
* Talked about device syncing.
* Talked about performance enhancements.
* If you can't contribute your time, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 20 bugs/feature-requests created
* 13 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 5 bugs marked INVALID
* 12 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 7 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 17 bugs marked FIXED
* 9 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
