.. title: Dev call April 27th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110427
.. date: 2011-04-27 22:45:48
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* things are stabilizing--if you've been waiting to test nightlies,
  now's a good time to jump in

Paul:

* worked on P1 bugs related to devices and ui changes
* worked on feed scraping for the Miro Guide and performance fixes
* worked on small bugs on Miro Community

Kaz:

* worked through P1 bugs related to list view

Jonas:

* worked on P1 bugs and other problems he's found while testing

Will:

* synced translations
* fixed 17120
* updated to libtorrent 0.15.6 on OSX and Windows

Ben:

* fixed a bunch of P1 issues
* spent a lot of time on metadata extraction issues
* fixing the video search widget issues

Order of business:

* We need to do more testing with external hard drives on all three
  platforms.
* Talked about download notification: We talked about the specific
  problem we're trying to solve and options for that.
* Things are feeling much more stable. We're going to wait until Janet
  has some time to catch up and figure out when the codefreeze should
  happen.
* Talked about making sure Miro works in 800x600 which touches on UI
  resizing issues.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  `<http://manual.getmiro.com/>`__.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 58 bugs/feature-requests created
* 2 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 5 bugs marked INVALID
* 14 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 70 bugs marked FIXED
* 8 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
