.. title: Dev call 5/5/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100505
.. date: 2010-05-05 11:40:45
.. tags: miro, work

**minutes**

Miro 3.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.1>`__)

* we decided for sure that we're dropping support for OSX 10.4

Miro Community 1.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.0>`__)

* coming along nicely

Janet:

* Worked on testing for Miro, Miro Community, and Miro Video Converter.
* Worked on getting the Miro Community test server working with tests
  so we can run with a cron job.

Luc:

* Worked on problems with the downloader process not quitting on OSX.
  Suspicions are currently on libtorrent.
* Worked on problems created by autohiding the download and conversions
  tabs.
* Worked on libcurl changes for binary kit.
* We're going to ditch OSX 10.4. This means we'll have to upgrade
  infrastructure to 10.5 (test boxes, build box, ...).
* Worked on conversion feature fixes.

Paul:

* Worked on Miro Community stuff--mostly styling changes.
* Started working on user profiles.

Ben:

* Worked on libcurl changes--ready to check it in.
* Fixed a bunch of small bugs.
* Talked with Will about switching to webkit for Linux.

Will:

* Tweaked the bugzilla email template.
* Updated development machines to Ubuntu Lucid.
* Worked on problems with Miro web browser on Lucid.

**bugzilla**

* 18 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 5 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
