.. title: Dev call February 23rd, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110223
.. date: 2011-02-23 10:58:12
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

- lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
- working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
- working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
- one week until code freeze

Janet:

- spent the last couple of days testing device syncing support
- having internet connectivity problems, a macbook with a broken
  backlight, and a dead laptop
- tested subtitle support
- worked on litmus tests for devices

Geoffrey:

* merged transcoding branch
* continued working on P1 bugs

Ben:

* worked on P1 bugs, performance issues, and bunch of other things

Jonas:

* worked on magnet uri support---has it working from the Download Item
  menu

Kaz:

* worked on the new edit item menu
* added import progress meter

Paul:

* worked on ui overhaul bugs and device syncing bugs

Will:

* subtitles have a lot of problems, so I'm working on those
* spent a little time working with Miro on Windows
* continuing to work on bugs

Order of business:

* How do we extend our device support? We talked about adding a "report
  this device" button. Talked about putting together a form backed by a
  Google app to collect information from users.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 74 bugs/feature-requests created
* 6 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 6 bugs marked INVALID
* 4 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 65 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
