.. title: Dev call 11/18/2009 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20091118
.. date: 2009-11-18 11:22:02
.. tags: miro, work

**minutes**

2.5.4 status

* Ben made some fixes for 12301, those will get merged in.
* Need to sync translations
* A new set of branch builds today and a release at the end of this
  week or early next week

subtitle support status

* Luc has it implemented for OSX. Still need implementations for Linux
  and Windows.
* Will's working on the Windows implementation.
* Ben's going to look into moving the menu/submenu code to portable.
* Either Ben or Will will work on the Linux implementation when their
  plates clear.

Ben:

* spent a while working on bug 12301. bunch of fixes that'll go into
  2.5.4.
* researched "pumping up the volume"; looks possible so he's going to
  implement it.

Luc:

* frustrating week working on gstreamer subtitles support
* had problems getting his test files to play correctly with Miro on
  Ubuntu Karmic
* wants to hand off gstreamer subtitle support to someone else
* worked on scrollbar problem with osx

Janet:

* tested 2.5.4, tested 12301 fixes, and did a bunch of Miro Community
  testing

Paul:

* worked on bugs for Miro Community 0.9

Will:

* will merge in ben's 12301 work, sync translations, and make a set of
  2.5 branch builds
* will work on subtitle support for windows
* will work on subtitle support for linux

**bugzilla**

* 9 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 2 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 1 bugs marked FIXED

**notes**

Several people said they read the reports weekly and find them very
useful, so I'll continue writing them.

One person mentioned how there's no public information about Miro
development. That's not correct. Here's a list of urls of public
information:

* Bugzilla timeline http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi
* Bugzilla roadmap http://bugzilla.pculture.org/timeline.cgi
* Git repository web frontend http://git.participatoryculture.org/miro
* Release notes for releases
  https://develop.participatoryculture.org/trac/democracy/wiki/ReleaseNotes
* We have #miro and #miro-hackers on freenode.net for IRC.
* Develop mailing list
  http://participatoryculture.org/mailman/listinfo/develop
* Planet Miro http://planet.getmiro.com/
* Miro blog http://www.getmiro.com/blog/
* Identi.ca group http://identi.ca/group/miro
