.. title: Dev call 01/12/2011
.. slug: devcall_20110112
.. date: 2011-01-12 12:46:46
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Janet:

* playing catch-up on testing for Miro 4.0
* updating tests with `Sikuli <http://sikuli.org/>`__, found a problem
  which they fixed (thank you super cool Sikuli developers!)
* tested Miro Video Converter
* tested Universal Subtitles
* started testing the Miro app for the iPad

Kaz:

* working on the new ui--tried to get it done for the call, but it's
  not quite there, yet
* working on the view menu--probably land it this week
* working on ratings--almost done
* researching adding MusicBrainz support
* fixed some bugs

Will:

* did a bunch of stuff related to moving servers around
* overhauled the windows build scripts and some of the code so that I
  can work on Windows
* fixed unit tests so we have proper test skipping
* planning to land extensions

Ben:

* interviewing candidates
* made changes to signals that we talked about on the last couple of
  calls which caught some funky issues
* fixed a bunch of bugs
* working on performance fixes for tree inserts

Paul:

* fixed a bunch of bugs
* working on Amazon store support

Geoffrey:

* merged the DAAP branch to master
* did some release engineering for putting Miro in the app store
* having problems with bonjour support on Windows

Asheesh:

* working on Miro Community tiers

Order of business:

* Can Will land extensions, yet? In the future, if you need peoples'
  input, track them down and ping them until they submit to your needs.
* talked about how to get bonjour support working for Miro on Windows

  - problems with bonjour support on Windows
  - could use mDNS responder (Apache license) but we can't get it to
    compile with Visual Studio Express
  - maybe the user should download the file and print sharing thing
    and install it?

* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/. (It just moved.)

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 46 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 6 bugs marked INVALID
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 20 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
