.. title: Dev call February 16th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110216
.. date: 2011-02-16 11:23:28
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Will:

* Did a bunch of stuff last week.
* I'm sitting on a couple of ui overhaul enhancements, but they're
  pretty minor. After those, I'll be working on P1 bugs.

Ben:

* Working on performance issues. There are several places that are
  problematic that still need work.
* Hasn't really looked at the roadmap in a while.
* Now has a working Macbook.

Geoffrey:

* Doing great!
* Finishing up work on transcoding, but it's under control. It's tight
  timing-wise, but he's pretty sure he'll hit a March 1st code freeze.

Kaz:

* Still working on a few new ui things. Both should be pretty doable
  and shouldn't take a lot of time.
* Still has a few tweaks to do and implementation of things on OSX.
* Overall is in good shape for the code freeze as long as nothing
  substantial comes up.

Jonas:

* Working on magnet uri related changes. There are a lot of problems
  and it's not clear how much work there is to do for this.
* Ben agreed to work with Jonas on magnet uri stuff.

Janet:

* Sikuli rc2 came out and it's awesome. Now we can execute tests on
  Linux and Windows.
* Needs ui overhaul bugs finished in order to continue working on
  Sikuli test cases.

Paul:

* Paul's mic doesn't work, but we think he's doing ok.

Asheesh:

* Miro Community 1.2 is the awesome! Life in Miro Community is all pina
  coladas and sunshine.
* Excited for a MC 1.2 release in the very near future.

Order of business:

* Where are we at?

  * Unfinished ui overhaul bugs are blocking Janet from writing tests.
  * Magnet URI project might be big--we'll know more soon.
  * Transcoding should be working by March 1st, but it's tight
    timing-wise.
  * WindowsServer problem is probably going to take serious time to
    work out.
  * There are still some unresolved performance issues.

* Otherwise everyone thinks we're doing ok regarding the March 1st code
  freeze except me. I'm concerned that the continued state of flux
  suggests we're not going to make it or we're not going to have a
  March 1st Miro that's stable.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 71 bugs/feature-requests created
* 10 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 3 bugs marked INVALID
* 12 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 54 bugs marked FIXED
* 7 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
