.. title: Dev call February 2nd, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110202
.. date: 2011-02-02 11:28:32
.. tags: miro, work

**Note:** I'm changing the way I denote the date so it's not ambiguous.
Sorry about that.

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Nick:

* Morgan's family had the flu last week which is why ui overhaul
  related questions are taking a while to get answered.

Ben:

* Worked on sorting and playlists.
* Planning to work on new InfoList issues.

Janet:

* Lost internet connection for most of the week.
* Worked on sikuli tests--most of them are done now.
* Implementing tests in sikuli has uncovered lots of issues.

Geoffrey:

* Continuing to work on sharing and other things on his plate.

Kaz:

* Worked on views and metadata stuff.

Paul:

* Worked on device syncing.
* Worked on ui overhaul bugs. Updated the sidebar.

Jonas:

* Worked on shuffle/repeat and playback.

Asheesh:

* Working hard on Miro Community 1.2--hopefully will have a beta out
  this week.

Will:

* Windows build box keeps hanging. Seems like it's predominantly
  related to when the cron job to build the nightly kicks off, but it's
  hung at other times, too. Hopefully we can get through this dev cycle
  before we have to replace the Windows build box because that'll take
  a chunk of time to do.
* Investigating libtorrent issues of which there are several and
  they're complicated.
* Looking at storing fast resume as a downloader-specific thing and
  storing it in files rather than the Miro sqlite database.

Order of business:

* Welcome Jonas! This is the largest group of Miro developers we've
  ever had (6). Hopefully we can keep this group going forward, but it
  depends on funding.
* Talked about how to fix the handling of the fastresume data for
  torrents. Will is going to change the downloader so that it's not
  passing this data to the Miro process and instead is managing it
  itself in files.
* Talked about magnet uri support. Will thinks this is a big project
  and is hesitant to do it because of its bigness. So we assigned it to
  Jonas because he's new and isn't scared of anything, yet.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 69 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 7 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 41 bugs marked FIXED
* 6 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
