.. title: Dev call 9/15/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100915
.. date: 2010-09-15 14:08:24
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* focusing on P1 issues and trying to get the release done--almost
  there

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* focusing on small bugs that should get fixed before the long haul for
  1.2.

Janet:

* Worked on Universal Subtitles testing.
* There's been a ton of bug fixes for Miro in the last few days that
  need to be tested and areas that need to be regression tested.

Will:

* Worked on 3.5 bugs.

Ben:

* Worked on 3.5 bugs, but mainly on http downloading and conversions.

Paul:

* Switching over from Miro Community to Miro.
* We're having a lot of total failure problems with Amazon EC2 and RDS
  and it's becoming a pain in the ass.

Order of business:

* We say goodbye to Luc. He's done a ton of work on Miro and has been
  on the team for a long time. Good luck in your future endeavors!
  We'll miss you!
* Talked about switching to Skype for conference calls because the
  system we're using now sucks.
* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html.
  If there are bugs you want fixed that aren't in our queue, consider
  submitting a patch.
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 20 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
* 2 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 19 bugs marked FIXED
* 9 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
