.. title: Dev call July 6th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110706
.. date: 2011-07-06 11:55:12
.. tags: miro, work


**Note**

I was on vacation and missed the last couple of dev calls, thus there
aren't any notes.


**Miro status**

* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* We pushed out Miro 4.0.2.
* We're now working on Miro 4.1.


Kaz:

* Working on metadata stuff.

Geoffrey:

* Working on 4.1 things.  Merged in osx binary kit updates.

Ben:

* Released 4.0.2.
* Working on 4.1 things; working on hybrid view.

Paul:

* Working on 4.1 tickets related to device syncing/support issues.

Janet:

* Adding tests to our automated test suites.

Will:

* Undid the single-package work I did for Ubuntu packaging.
* Working on Windows overhaul.

Jonas:

* Working on winsparkle support for Miro on Windows.


**Order of business:**

* Talked about the things we want to refactor during this dev cycle.
  We can't refactor everything, so we talked about what's in the
  refactoring queue that affect things we're already working on for
  4.1 and working on those.

  * (Will) move infoupdater stuff from widgets to portable
  * (Ben) 13182: filename unicode handling
    * switch all internal stuff to unicode strings.
    * rename unicode_to_filename method which sucks.

  * (Ben) 17498: itemlist filtering
  * (Kaz) 16783: refactoring widgetstatestore

* We need to figure out a better way to test translations for
  bogosity.  We need to balance fragility of whatever it is we
  do with usefulness and effort it takes to implement/maintain.
  Janet will think about this.

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .



**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 30 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 13 bugs marked INVALID
* 9 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 13 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
