.. title: Dev call 01/26/2011
.. slug: devcall_20110126
.. date: 2011-01-26 15:52:30
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Ben:

* Landed InfoList performance changes.
* Going to work on bug fixes.

Geoff:

* Merged the sharing stuff.
* Spent time fixing things that were broken.
* Will continue working on fixing broken things.
* Planning to work on transcoding next--that's the last big thing on
  his list for Miro 4.0.

Kaz:

* Hoping to push the new view menu soon.
* Add metadata versioning.
* Working on showing item metadata scanning progress.
* Working on custom widgets for list view headers.

Will:

* Spent some time getting Miro running MeeGo.
* Spent some time working on switching Miro on Windows to
  gstreamer--too much work, so I'm going to defer it until a future
  version.
* Is it me or is our repository not git bisectable now? How can we fix
  this?

Asheesh:

* Working on a MC 1.2 and hoping to fix it by next Wednesday.
* Working with Rob to deploy patch to MC servers which tells us how
  long Apache is taking to render certain pages.

Paul:

* Worked on device stuff and the new connect section.
* Working on ui tickets.

Order of business:

* Talked about ItemInfo, ItemSource, and ItemHandler
* Talked about ui overhaul and those bits should be going faster now.
  New design work should be landing in tickets in the next few days.
* Talked about how git bisect doesn't work now. Kaz said he has steps
  to work around that. He's going to send an email about how he's
  working around the problem.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 59 bugs/feature-requests created
* 6 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 9 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 31 bugs marked FIXED
* 7 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
