.. title: Dev call 11/17/2010
.. slug: devcall_20100117
.. date: 2010-11-17 13:06:40
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5.1>`__)

* still working on it

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* Paul landed the beginnings of device syncing in master
* working on audio file metadata retrieval, storage, and ui
* working on extension framework
* switching testing from eggplant to sikuli

Will:

* Worked on 3.5.1 stuff.
* Still working on ffmpeg compliance stuff. I broke conversions in OSX,
  so I'm working on figuring that out and updating conversions from the
  matrix
* We should bump the "application configuration" error up to a p1.
* Miro is waiting on MVC builds for Windows from Adam, too.

Paul:

* Merged syncing branch into master. It's the awesome.
* Then fixed a bunch of things. See Paul's post and help us support
  other devices:
  http://pculture.org/devblogs/paul/2010/11/14/how-to-get-syncing-support-for-your-favorite-device/

Kaz:

* Added code to update the database to have metadata information.
* Fixed the code to use mutagen instead of moviedata for audio files
  which is awesome. 5x faster.
* Got tag-flattening working.

Geoff:

* Working on streaming Miro stuff to an iPad.
* Working on fixes for Miro 4.

Asheesh:

* Worked on Miro Community 1.2 and fixing issues for Duke.

Janet:

* Replaced her dead computer--it's now up and running.
* Regression testing for 3.5.1.
* eggplant license is about to expire--switching to sikuli

Ben:

* Working on shepherding 3.5.1 and fixing bugz.

Order of business:

* We talked about git workflow for R&D branches.
* Talked about remaining 3.5.1 issues, who's working on what, and how
  soon we can get this release out.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 27 bugs/feature-requests created
* 2 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 4 bugs marked INVALID
* 5 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 13 bugs marked FIXED
* 4 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
