.. title: Dev call 10/13/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20101013
.. date: 2010-10-13 12:57:33
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* did a Miro 3.5 rc2
* fixed some bugs, planning to do an rc3
* need help testing and translating Miro 3.5
* probably a release on or around October 20th

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* focusing on small bugs that should get fixed before the long haul for
  1.2.

Janet:

* rc2 has been out for a little over a week
* ran regression tests on rc2
* no idea how many downloads we have for rc2, but there are a lot of
  new litmus testers which is a good sign
* worked on automating universal subtitles testing

Ben:

* working on 4.0 refactoring work
* worked on bug 14609

Will:

* wasn't around last week
* worked on triaging and fixing rc2 bugs
* we need an rc3--too many big changes

Paul:

* worked on syncing stuff on Windows--problems with gio bits not
  implemented

Kaz:

* worked on making sure Miro works with Python 2.7--it does
* working on audio metadata research for Miro 4.0

Order of business:

* there were no devcall notes last week because I wasn't on the call
* Kaz has joined the PCF Miro team! Welcome Kaz!
* WikiMedia is starting to use the Universal Subtitles stuff:

  * http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Commons:Universal_Subtitles?withJS=MediaWiki:MwEmbed.js
  * http://videoonwikipedia.org/

* we need to do a Miro 3.5 rc3
* Miro users need your help translating! See `Translations for Miro 3.5
  -- we need your
  help! <http://bluesock.org/~willkg/blog/miro/translations_miro_3_5.html>`__
  for details.
* Miro users need your help testing! See `Miro 3.5 RC1 builds are
  available <http://www.getmiro.com/blog/2010/09/miro-3-5-rc1-builds-are-available/>`__
  for details.
* If you can't contribute your time, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 27 bugs/feature-requests created
* 4 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 3 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
