.. title: Dev call April 6th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110406
.. date: 2011-04-06 12:29:00
.. tags: miro, work

Miro Community 1.2 status

* Miro Community 1.2 has shipped! Congratulations to the MC team!

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is stabilizing
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* probably a release in May or June--we're working hard on it!

Will:

* Ubuntu Natty releases on April 28th. I've spent some time already
  making sure that Miro works on Natty and we have a helper script
  already. I'm planning to wait until it's out before I spend a ton of
  time fixing issues.
* I want to set up a second PPA for testing on Ubuntu Maverick and
  Natty. That'll alleviate issues people are having with missing
  dependencies when testing Miro on Ubuntu. Planning to wait until the
  release candidate cycle to set this PPA up.
* I'm mostly done with the new Add Files dialog, but there are some
  outstanding issues I'm still working on.
* I plan to do my work on Windows for the next week.

Paul:

* Worked on ui tickets all week.
* Waiting on log files for device-related issues.
* Spent time on Miro Guide getting a development server going so that
  he can spend some time on Miro Guide stuff.

Kaz:

* Working on issues in local branches.
* Working mostly on OSX next week.

Jonas:

* Worked on P1 issues.

Geoffrey:

* Working on sort ui issues for standard view.
* No big issues--mostly just cruising through bugs.

Ben:

* Worked on bugs--got a bunch of P1 bugs done.

Janet:

* Caught a cold and feels icky.
* Working on testing Miro and Universal Subtitles things. Feels like
  the current round of bugs are smaller and less "this whole thing is
  totally broken".

Order of business:

* Talked about where we're at with Miro 4.0. Lot of newly created bugs
  over the last week, but we're done with new features. Bugs are
  getting smaller and more specific. We're getting close to a release
  candidate.
* Talked about setting up a miro-testing PPA for Ubuntu Maverick and
  Natty. We're going to wait on this until the release candidate phase.
* Talked about the plan for Natty. We've done some testing already and
  some setup and Miro looks ok so far. When Natty releases (April
  28th), one or more of us will upgrade and do more granular testing.
  Will is working on an appindicator support extension. At some point
  Will plans to look at what things we can do to fit into the Unity and
  GNOME 3 interfaces better, too.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are probably unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made. If you're interested in testing, but don't want to test
  bleeding edge, then it's worth waiting until we hit the release
  candidate portion of the dev cycle. We're currently thinking that'll
  be in a couple of weeks.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 69 bugs/feature-requests created
* 12 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 56 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
