.. title: Dev call 9/22/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100929
.. date: 2010-09-29 11:41:11
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* did a Miro 3.5 rc1
* couple of minor bugs to fix
* planning to do a Miro 3.5 rc2
* need help testing and translating Miro 3.5
* probably a release on or around October 10th

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* focusing on small bugs that should get fixed before the long haul for
  1.2.

Paul:

* did a whole bunch of stuff on a bunch of different project
* finished new new Miro installer work for Windows--we're trying
  \_really\_ hard to get this right and balance the asstasticness with
  income stream
* fixed some small bugs on Miro Community for Miro Community 1.1.2
* did some demo work with syncing for Miro 4--waiting on the Trac to
  MediaWiki change
* planning to update his Windows build environment

Janet:

* regression tested the Miro 3.5 rc1 builds
* wrote some blog entries
* we don't know how many downloads we're getting with release
  candidates so that we can better figure that out
* testing Universal Subtitles for their upcoming release

Ben:

* fixed the http auth bug (yay!)
* fixed some other bugs for the Miro 3.5 rc1 builds and some bugs found
  after the builds
* built a new OSX build environment

Will:

* bugfixing for Miro
* did Miro 3.5 rc1 release
* worked on Ubuntu packaging
* worked on miro user manual updates

Order of business:

* used Skype for the call. SO MUCH CLEARER.
* Miro 3.5 release schedule

  * going to do a Miro 3.5 rc2 Wednesday or Thursday
  * lots and lots of testing and translation work
  * do a final release around October 10th

* need to know how many people are downloading nightlies and release
  candidates. we need to fix the nightlies page so that it's using urls
  that count downloads and redirect.
* things we can hack on at OVC:

  * performance (memory, speed) tuning
  * extension system
  * Miro 4 features that are well defined and ready to go
  * talking to people about Miro user interface usage
  * writing widget layer documentation; Miro widget tutorial

* Ben, Nick, Paul, Dean, Will and a bunch of other PCF people will be
  at `Open Video Conference <http://www.openvideoconference.org/>`__
  this weekend in NYC. If you're there, please say hi!
* Miro users need your help translating! See `Translations for Miro 3.5
  -- we need your
  help! <http://bluesock.org/~willkg/blog/miro/translations_miro_3_5.html>`__
  for details.
* Miro users need your help testing! See `Miro 3.5 RC1 builds are
  available <http://www.getmiro.com/blog/2010/09/miro-3-5-rc1-builds-are-available/>`__
  for details.
* If you can't contribute your time, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 17 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bug marked WONTFIX
* 17 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bug marked WORKSFORME
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
