.. title: Dev call March 2nd, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110302
.. date: 2011-03-02 11:39:10
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* past the codefreeze--switching to mini-deadlines for important
  functionality.

Will:

* worked on subtitle issues; discovered some irritating things about
  our subtitle support
* worked on p1 issues

Paul:

* worked on device support problems
* switched to working on ui overhaul stuff

Kaz:

* working on custom table headers; will probably implement this on OSX
  and skip GTK platforms
* continuing to work on the edit item dialog

Jonas:

* working on magnet uri support; keeps bumping into metadata-related
  issues
* mostly done with magnet uri support

Geoffrey:

* merged in transcoding branch last week
* working on polishing and fixing edge-case issues
* mostly done with things now--just some edge-case issues to handle

Ben:

* working on ui overhaul bugs; having some problems but thinks he can
  get the majority of it done
* after that, will work on a variety of small ui bugs

Janet:

* spent a lot of time testing device support and sharing support

Order of business:

* We missed the codefreeze. We've got a lot accomplished, but there are
  still problems that need to be addressed. We're pushing out the
  deadlines a bit and also switching to a mini-deadline model.
* Next mini-deadline is for user-interfaces issues. That's end of
  Friday.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 78 bugs/feature-requests created
* 4 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 6 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 52 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
