.. title: Dev call 7/28/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100728
.. date: 2010-07-28 10:55:09
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* renamed from Miro 3.1 to 3.5
* working on rebuilding the Windows build environment
* working on fixing up video conversion issues
* working on fixing libcurl related issues

Miro Community 1.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1>`__)

* working on it
* implementing playlist features

Nick:

* Launched complete alpha version of the site with full workflow.

Paul:

* Worked on playlist feature for Miro Community.
* Worked on Twitter and Facebook logins.

Luc:

* Worked on Miro 3.1 bugs.
* Now hitting bugs that are hard to fix and take a long time.

Will:

* Fixed YouTube bug and pushed out 3.0.3.
* Fixed a bunch of Miro 3.1 bugs.
* Landed mostly working Windows build environment changes.

Janet:

* Spent most of her time on Universal Subtitles.
* Pushed out Miro 3.0.3.

Ben:

* Hi! I'm back!

Order of business

* We decided to rename Miro 3.1 to 3.5 on account of large changes.
* The following release is being renamed to 3.6 for now.
* Priority is being put on finishing off this release. Any help with
  this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the roadmap that
  need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know where to
  start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 10 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 8 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
