.. title: Dev call February 9th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110209
.. date: 2011-02-09 11:47:20
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is starting to stabilize
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Janet:

* writing up lots of bugs as she builds new Sikuli test cases
* waiting on Sikuli release

Will:

* fixed the torrent directory bug
* working on reworking fastresume--going carefully to make sure i'm not
  creating new problems
* Windows build box keeps hanging at night which blows, but I'm going
  to keep kicking this can down the road as much as possible
* haven't spent much time on Windows recently, but will spend more time
  on it soon

Paul:

* working on implementing ui overhaul tickets

Geoffrey:

* worked on transcoding for streaming between Miro and other systems
* worked on DAAP code

Kaz:

* reworked scrolling for views to fix a bunch of problems
* working on saving display state between Miro runs

Jonas:

* worked on shuffle/repeat work and making it save per display between
  Miro runs
* working on support for magnet uris

Ben:

* worked on infolist fixes
* noticed some things in the interface is still slow and is going to
  look at them in the near-term

Order of business:

* Talked a little bit about the strings and code freezes.
* Talked about the downloading tab sorting and how downloads flick
  around. Janet's going to write up a bug for it.
* Migrating fastresumedata. Will will test to see if a 3.5.1 to 4.0
  upgrade with ditching fast resume data is ok, but otherwise plans to
  dump the fastresume data.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 63 bugs/feature-requests created
* 8 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 46 bugs marked FIXED
* 8 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
