.. title: Dev call 10/20/2010
.. slug: devcall_20101020
.. date: 2010-10-20 11:33:50
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* did a Miro 3.5 rc3
* fixed some bugs, but we're ready for a release

Miro 3.5.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5.1>`__)

* there will probably be a 3.5.1--I want to wait until after 3.5 is out
  to figure out the details.

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* Asheesh is the new MC for MC
* working on bugs

**Janet:**

* Regression testing Miro 3.5 rc3 all week long. Some bugs, but
  everything is currently fixed right now.
* We have had new people testing Miro 3.5 rc3 through Litmus which is
  really great.
* We've been tracking downloads for rc3 and it's looking ok, but we
  would have hoped to have more help testing.

**Will:**

* Wishes we had more quantified Miro 3.5-rc3 testing. That would make
  him feel more comfortable with where we're at with the release.
* We have a list of things we should look at and/or fix for Miro 3.5.1.
* Migrated our developer stuff from trac to mediawiki. (Sent email
  about it.)
* Updated the Miro User Manual for 3.5.

**Kaz:**

* Working on metadata for Miro 4.0.
* Mutagen is working out really well.
* Working on figuring out the ui and db components for metadata
  storage, viewing, and possibly editing.

**Paul:**

* Spent the last week and a half spending quality time with getting
  Miro on Windows to recognize USB devices.
* Got it working on Linux. Now working on getting it working on Windows
  and OSX.

**Ben:**

* Reworked configuration for Miro 4.0. (Sent email about it.)
* Planning to work on performance tuning for Miro 4.0.

**Asheesh:**

* Started working on Miro Community this week.
* Also working on building the Miro community (lowercase c) so that
  there are fewer barriers to entry and it's more inviting.
* Got his Miro Community system working and is now working on bugs.

**Order of business:**

* Talked about where we're at with the Miro 3.5 release. General
  consensus is that we're ready.
* Talked about id3 metadata bits and storage.
* Talked a bit about device syncing.
* Talked a little bit about streaming to external devices and Miro
  streaming apps. Paul had looked into DLNA possibilities to allow
  external devices control and stream content from Miro. Options look
  to be either writing our own DLNA system, or adding
  Twisted/Twisted.Web as dependencies and using an exisiting one. The
  iPad guy wants to do this in Bonjour.
* Miro users need your help translating! See `Translations for Miro 3.5
  -- we need your
  help! <http://bluesock.org/~willkg/blog/miro/translations_miro_3_5.html>`__
  for details.
* If you can't contribute your time, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 23 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 8 bugs marked FIXED
* 3 bugs marked INVALID
