.. title: Dev call May 4th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110504
.. date: 2011-05-04 15:28:59
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* we put out a beta on Saturday and things are looking awesome
* there's still a lot of work to do, we need help with testing and
  translations.

Janet:

* We did a beta release over the weekend. Huge number of Windows
  downloads (2000ish). OSX downloads (100ish). Source downloads
  (10ish).
* Some minor issues discovered so far--things are looking ok.
* Pulling in interns to do more testing on Miro.

Will:

* Worked on P1 bugs that were primarily TypeError issues and easily
  fixed with some defensive programming.
* Happy to have a beta channel---that'll solve a bunch of release
  testing issues.
* Going to switch gears and work on Miro User Manual stuff. Trying to
  write a comprehensive but concise manual. It needs to be concise
  because otherwise we'll spend tons of time writing and maintaining
  it. Planning to do a few manual-writing sprints like we did last
  cycle.

Paul:

* Worked on Miro Community project list page.
* Working on P1 bugs for Miro and Miro Community.

Rob:

* Tighten up the systems, make them more automated, make them more
  efficient.

Geoffrey:

* Worked on P1 bugs and trying to squeeze more performance from
  transcoding.

Kaz:

* Worked on P1 bugs

Jonas:

* Worked on Windows playback issues and some other beta bugs.

Asheesh:

* Interested in fixing Miro stuff to make it easier to bring in new
  contributors and also running some sprints

Ben:

* Worked on P1 bugs.

Order of business:

* More ui changes coming.
* RC on Friday. Focus on outstanding ui changes.
* Manual doesn't need to be totally up to date on release, so Will will
  updated a bunch of stuff, and probably put in stubs for bits.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 104 bugs/feature-requests created
* 5 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 8 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 54 bugs marked FIXED
* 2 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
