.. title: Dev call April 13th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110413
.. date: 2011-04-13 11:58:51
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is stabilizing
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* probably a release in May or June--we're working hard on it!

Paul:

* Worked on bugs across Miro: device bugs, ui bugs, sidebar bugs, ...

Will:

* Finished working on close/destroy implementation issues which took a
  while.
* Continuing to sync translations, run tests, peer review code, triage
  bugs and all that.
* Wrote up a bunch of bugs that were complex where i wasn't able to
  reproduce them several days later. It's possible there are flux
  issues involved, but this concerns me.

Ben:

* Worked on a bunch of bugs and got sidetracked into import progress
  updating issues.
* Planning to work on tableview selection issues going forward.
* Put in a request for better comments in the code and better checkin
  comments.

Kaz:

* Made changes to list view column sizing for OSX and GTK.
* Working on P1 bugs going forward. Half of the P1s are selection
  issues. Will coordinate with Ben on fixing them.

Geoffrey:

* Worked on a bunch of P1 bugs for ui stuff, crashing bugs, daap bugs,
  and some other things.

Jonas:

* Worked on P1 bugs.

Janet:

* Doing a lot of Miro testing.
* Focusing on verifying bug fixes. When she does this, she adds
  additional tests to Sikuli and Litmus so we'll catch regression
  issues.
* Fixing Sikuli tests in regards to ui changes.

Order of business:

* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are probably unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made. If you're interested in testing, but don't want to test
  bleeding edge, then it's worth waiting until we hit the release
  candidate portion of the dev cycle. We're currently thinking that'll
  be in a couple of weeks.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 78 bugs/feature-requests created
* 5 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 4 bugs marked INVALID
* 10 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 2 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 79 bugs marked FIXED
* 4 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
