.. title: Dev call 8/25/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100825
.. date: 2010-08-25 11:16:09
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* working on fixing up video conversion issues
* working on cleaning things up

Miro Community 1.1.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.1>`__)

* Miro Community 1.1 was released last week
* working on some bug fixes targeted for 1.1.1

Paul:

* pushed Miro Community 1.1 out to the new servers
* looking at moving the db to another machine

Ben:

* continued working on bugs for Miro 3.5
* implemented font selection for subtitles on Windows

Will:

* implemented the PCF bug triage Firefox addon
* worked on database startup failure problems

Janet:

* working on Windows installer things
* and other things

Order of business

* We talked a little about what Miro 4 will entail. We're going to try
  to plan it out in a wiki rather than plan it out in Bugzilla because
  Bugzilla is difficult to use for iterative design. When tasks become
  sufficiently defined, we'll move them to Bugzilla and start
  implementing.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.
* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

Lot's of bug churn this week in part because of focus on regression
testing and because of the creation (and heavy usage of) the PCF bug
triage Firefox addon.

* 20 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 12 bugs marked FIXED
* 30 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
