.. title: Dev call July 13th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110713
.. date: 2011-07-13 12:55:49
.. tags: miro, work


**Miro status**

* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* We're now working on Miro 4.1.

Will:

* figured out gtk dll issues and continued working on upgrading the
  Windows dependencies

Paul:

* worked on auto-fill code; ui is mostly there, but still working on
  the functionality

Geoffrey:

* worked on usability issues
* worked on improvements to sharing

Jonas:

* worked on WinSparkle integration

Janet:

* worked on regression tests; adding new ones; augmenting existing
  ones
* worked on update testing

Ben:

* worked on hybrid view mode; pushed the branch to g.p.o.; it's sort
  of a proof-of-concept right now but looking good

Kaz:

* worked on metadata extraction and storage


**Order of business:**

* filename type overhaul: We should override FilenameType and
  PlatformFilenameType so they throw errors when used.  That'll make
  it easier to find issues.
* Jonas is working on getting Miro to use WinSparkle, so we talked
  about how we use Sparkle on OSX and how we get the appcast file and
  move the data around to make it happy in Sparkle.  We also talked
  about how to tweak the installer so that Miro passes to winsparkle
  which kicks off the installer and shuts down Miro.  Then the
  installer shows a progress bar and kicks off the new Miro.

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .


**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 19 bugs/feature-requests created
* 2 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
