.. title: Dev call March 23rd, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110323
.. date: 2011-03-23 12:19:36
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* lots of flux in git-master, but the code is stabilizing
* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...
* probably a release in April or May--we're working hard on it!

Janet:

*  worked on testing over the week
*  worked on sikuli tests now that the ui is more stable
*  feels that things are finally coming together

Will:

* worked on an upgrade problem with torrent directories
* implemented Import Media dialog -- will talk to Nick about this to
  figure out UI issues
* strings are still in flux, so it's not stable enough for translations
* working on conversion bugs now

Paul:

* worked on P1 bugs
* working on P1 bugs assigned to admin and taking bugs from other
  people

Kaz:

* worked on scrolling issues and selection issues
* working on a bunch of P1 miscellaneous bugs

Ben:

* worked on a ton of P1 bugs
* did a bunch of ui stuff: item details pane, standard view, conversion
  item renderer

Jonas:

* finished up magnet uri support
* working on P1 bugs

Order of business:

* Talked about how Miro does conversions and reworking it to fix some
  problems.
* Talked about where we're at with Miro 4.0. Things are looking good.
  Bug data suggests we've reached a point of inflection where we're
  fixing bugs faster than new bugs are coming in. There are still a
  fair amount of P1 bugs to do, but it seems manageable.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are probably unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made. If you're interested in testing, but don't want to test
  bleeding edge, then it's worth waiting until we hit the release
  candidate portion of the dev cycle. We're currently thinking that'll
  be in a couple of weeks.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects like
  `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`__ and `Universal
  Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__. See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 34 bugs/feature-requests created
* 5 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 47 bugs marked FIXED
* 5 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
