.. title: Dev call August 10th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110810
.. date: 2011-08-10 17:42:31
.. tags: miro, work


**Miro status**

* `4.0.3 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0.3>`_
* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* We're working on Miro 4.0.3 and 4.1.

Will:

* Helped Rob with bugzilla upgrade tests--we're probably upgrading
  soon.
* Continued working on the Windows overhaul.  Webkitgtk looks like a
  showstopper because it doesn't support Flash/plugins, so I'm going
  to pass browser upgrade work to Ben.  I'm now working on the
  GStreamer upgrade and keeping gtk at the same version.
* Last day at the end of August, but I'll hang out on IRC.

Geoffrey:

* Fixed YouTube downloads.
* Implemented push notifications for client side for DAAP.
* Fixed some regressions for push notifications on the server side.

Ben:

* Worked on item filter branch.
* Got a new computer and is setting it up.
* Continuing to work on hybrid view.

Paul:

* ...  (his skype was broken)

**Order of business:**

* Will will be handing things off to other people.
* 4.0.3 planning

  * YouTube fix, miro mobile fix
  * Will will take the release hat, build builds, write an email and
    get Janet to test tonight for a hopeful release tomorrow

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .


**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 13 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 13 bugs marked FIXED
