.. title: Dev call 4/7/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100407
.. date: 2010-04-07 12:52:46
.. tags: miro, work

**minutes**

Miro 3.0.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.0.1>`__)

* need confirmations on 13120 fix: Luc and Will will follow up on this
* need a better ui for when the zugo installer fails to download the
  miro installer; bug 13121; Janet's following up on this
* need to update translations; Will will do this

Miro 3.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.1>`__)

* coming along nicely
* seriously considering dropping support for OSX 10.4

Miro Community 1.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.0>`__)

* coming along nicely

Luc:

* Bug 13120 - Worked with Anne to find the possible cause of the
  problem, but it's still completely mysterious. Implemented a
  workaround that works on Anne's machine, but waiting for additional
  confirmation for other machines (David and additional GS person).
  Seems like the workaround should fix it for everyone, but it'd be
  good to have additional confirmation.
* Worked on some other less important things.

Janet:

* It was a forgettable week.
* Did some testing on the search bug, Miro Video Converter, continued
  refining regression tests and made some new ones.
* Will follow up with Zugo and Nick about bug 13121 and required
  interface changes.

Ben:

* Worked on bugs from 3.0.
* Working on replacing httpclient with libcurl (_so\_ much better so
  far).

Paul:

* Pushed out Miro Community v0.9.5 with a bunch of fixes.
* Working design-side of new features for 1.0.
* In good shape for Miro 1.0--probably 6 weeks of work.

Will:

* Did some follow-up work on some bugs, but mostly spent the week
  playing catch-up with real life stuff.

OSX information

There were around 470,000 visitors to the Miro Guide site who were using
OSX. Breakdown:

::

      OSX 10.6 - 50%
      OSX 10.5 - 35%
      OSX 10.4 - 12%
