.. title: Dev call 9/8/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100908
.. date: 2010-09-08 11:06:27
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* focusing on P1 issues and trying to get the release done

Miro Community 1.1.2 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1.2>`__)

* focusing on small bugs that should get fixed before the long haul for
  1.2.

Paul:

* reviewed Miro Guide patches
* worked on Miro Community fixes
* talked with Anne and Dean about Miro Community future

Janet:

* worked on Miro 3.5 regression testing focusing on OSX

Luc:

* worked on OSX issues
* looking at P3-P5 issues and worked on them

Ben:

* lost his Internet connection
* worked on bugs anyhow (git ftw)

Will:

* peer reviewed and fiddled with conversions code
* worked on the libfaac bug
* fixed the Windows system tray suckage bug

Order of business

* We talked about the Miro 3.5 schedule. We're focusing on P1 bugs only
  at this point. Nothing should get added to the list without
  discussion.
* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html.
  If there are bugs you want fixed that aren't in our queue, consider
  submitting a patch.
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 11 bugs/feature-requests created
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 12 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
