.. title: Dev call 11/04/2009 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20091104
.. date: 2009-11-04 11:27:25
.. tags: miro, work

**minutes**

Paul:

* Is sick.
* Bug fixes and small features for Miro Community.
* We have a lot of sites and things seem pretty stable.
* Working on Miro Community 0.9 now. 0.9 isn't very feature-full, but
  it improves on things for style, look and feel, and such.

Luc:

* Worked a couple of days on subtitle support for Miro on Windows using
  VLC. Building a test application in C. Once he's got that working,
  he'll transcribe it to Python and ctypes.
* Switched gears to help Will to fix libtorrent build problems with the
  new binary kit system. Bumped into problems getting it to compile on
  OSX 10.4 (expletive expletive expletive). Worked around it.

Will:

* Continued working on libtorrent and binary kit changes.
* Wants to do a 2.5.4 that includes vlc 1.0.3, libtorrent/unicode fixes
  on Windows, and database fixes from Ben.

Ben:

* Fixed database problems with duplicate ids.
* Spent time removing sorts.pyx and filetypes.pyx from the codebase.
  This reduces complexity of the build.
* Wants to push out a 2.5.4 with database fixes he's done recently.
* Wants to finish the fasttypes removal work on OSX.
* Talked about the sniffer code.

Janet:

* Tested changes in Miro and Miro Community.
* Working on making it easier to assign tasks to volunteers and get
  more volunteers involved in the process without losing track of them.
* Wrote up a wiki page for subtitle implementation work and testing.
  This will become the specification of what we're implementing now
  that we're mostly done research.
  https://develop.participatoryculture.org/trac/democracy/wiki/SubtitleImplementationDetails
* Is having her wisdom teeth taken out next week.

**bugzilla**

* 19 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
