.. title: Dev call 12/29/2010
.. slug: devcall_20101229
.. date: 2010-12-29 14:05:04
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Kaz:

* continued working on metadata-related work
* working on a view menu for showing/hiding columns

Ben:

* rewrote search code
* continuing to work on ui performance enhancements

Geoffrey:

* worked on pydaap
* worked on bonjour support--running into license issues

Paul:

* mic was dead

Will:

* fixed a bunch of bugs
* got extensions mostly done
* planning to work on conversions-related bugs and looking into
  ditching flashscraper

Order of business:

* Windows bonjour library: Licensed under the Apache license. Looks
  like we can't compile it without a full version of Visual Studio.
  Need to figure out what to do here.
* database issues: there might be reentrant-related issues. Ben is
  going to check to make sure all database changes happen in the
  backend thread. Geoffrey is going to write up a bug about reentrant
  issues he's seeing in regards to signal handling. Ben and Geoffrey
  will continue researching this and we'll talk about it more next
  week.
* performance issues with Gtk TreeView: Ben and Kaz are going to look
  into this over the next week.
* extensions: Nick says he doesn't want any user-facing parts this time
  around, so I may just leave that portion as is. I sent out an email
  with where I'm at to the develop list. Is what I have ok so far? Are
  there any additional uses for extensions that we want to think about
  going forward? Is it ready to land?
* How much work do we think we have left for 4.0? People should write
  up bugs for all the things they're planning on doing for the 4.0
  cycle so we have a good idea of where we're at.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 24 bugs/feature-requests created
* 3 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 14 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 3 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
