.. title: Dev call 9/16/2009 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20090916
.. date: 2009-09-16 14:55:08
.. tags: miro, work

**summary**

Every Wednesday morning we have a conference call that we call the "dev
call". This has been happening for years. Mostly we use it as a place to
schedule upcoming development, talk with each other about problems we're
working on, and come up to speed on where we're all at.

I occasionally take minutes when someone isn't on the dev call. I'm
experimenting with posting the minutes on this blog for the next month.
If it turns out to be useful, I'll keep doing it. Otherwise I'll stop.

**minutes**

Minutes for this morning's call:

Luc:

* working on getting Miro working with Snow Leopard.
* cleaning up the sandbox code.
* it'll make things much easier when we drop support for 10.4--but
  that's far in the future still. (15% of OSX users are using 10.4
  according to Miro Guide stats.)
* then we talked about the costs of supporting 10.4 users.

Will:

* worked on Miro 2.5.3 and 2.6 all week.
* talked about bug status for 12028, 12150, 12166, 12101, and 12108.
* talked about how we're building libtorrent and how we should bump it
  to the binary kit which will definitely alleviate some issues and
  possibly alleviate others because we're not really building it
  "right" in the first place.
* made changes to Planet Miro and took over curating.

Janet:

* got her machine back which was fried by lightning in August.
* working through reworking her test environments.
* testing the Miro 2.5 nightly that Will built.

Paul:

* working on Miro Community.
* almost done with merging "users" and "authors". should get resolved
  in the near future.
* continuing to implement styling stuff from Morgan.

**kickstarter**

Subtitles project on kickstarter has 12 backers for $191. We're hoping
it clears $1000 by the end of the month.

**bugzilla**

Rough Bugzilla stats:

* 16 bugs created
* 8 bugs marked FIXED
* 4 bugs marked as DUPLICATE
