.. title: Dev call 9/30/2009 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20090930
.. date: 2009-09-30 11:06:39
.. tags: miro, work

**minutes**

Minutes for this morning's call:

Janet:

* Has gone through all of the tests on Windows XP for 2.5.3 rc1.
* Working on testing Miro on OSX.
* 2.5.3 rc1 is looking good so far.

Luc:

* Worked on 12212 and should have it fixed tomorrow.
* Worked on subtitle ui--it's coming along nicely.
* It's hard to determine which subtitle thing is which language which
  makes it hard to allow users to choose a default subtitle language.
* Worked on external .srt subtitle handling.
* Perian doesn't support external .srt for movie containers it doesn't
  open by itself (mp4, quicktime, ogg, ...). Luc's running into
  problems with that and is trying to talk to the Perian developers.
* VLC handles everything created so far just fine. Luc's tossing around
  ditching Quicktime/Perian for VLC. *(ed note: I think I summarized
  that right--but I could be completely mistaken about what Luc is
  tossing around.)*
* Will continue doing subtitle work in a subtitle branch that'll
  eventually get pushed to g.p.o.

Ben:

* Hopped on the call to say hi.

Will:

* Worked on 2.5.3 bugs, put out a rc1 release.
* Working on redoing release process, scripts and infrastructure to
  make releases easier and cleaner with git.

Paul:

* Working on Miro Community--almost done with version 1.0.
* Working on unit tests.

**kickstarter**

We achieved the $1000 goal in large part to a couple of key donations.
Thank you!

**bugzilla**

* 21 bugs created
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bug marked DUPLICATE
* 8 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
* 2 bugs marked INVALID
* 1 bug marked WONTFIX
