.. title: Dev call 8/18/2010 minutes
.. slug: devcall_20100818
.. date: 2010-08-18 12:07:45
.. tags: miro, work

Miro 3.5 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5>`__)

* working on fixing up video conversion issues
* working on cleaning things up

Miro Community 1.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro+Community&target=1.1>`__)

* working on it--probably a release today or tomorrow

Paul:

* Planning to tag Miro Community 1.1 and pushing out the release in the
  next day or two. Yay!
* Worked on the Miro installer for Windows.

Ben:

* Worked on bugs for Miro 3.5.
* Talked about how to tackle bug 14203.

Will:

* Worked on bugs.
* Tested Miro on Maverick.

Order of business

* We spent some time talking about fundraising. We're trying to get to
  the point where Miro development is self-funding.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.
* Priority is being put on finishing development work on Miro 3.5. Any
  help with this would be huge. There are a series of bugs on the
  roadmap that need to be fixed. If you want to help out but don't know
  where to start, see http://getmiro.com/userguide/contributing.html
* If you can't contribute work, please consider contributing funding by
  `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your money goes
  directly to ongoing development of Miro and related projects.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro:**

* 13 bugs/feature-requests created
* 1 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 7 bugs marked FIXED
* 1 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 1 bugs marked INCOMPLETE
