.. title: Dev call June 8th, 2011
.. slug: devcall_20110608
.. date: 2011-06-08 15:09:46
.. tags: miro, work


**Miro status**

* `4.0.2 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0.2>`_
* `4.1 roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.1>`_
* we're going to keep working on Miro 4.0.2 for another week or two
* we're starting work on Miro 4.1

Ben:

* 4.0.2 is going pretty well.  There are still a few blockers, but
  most things are in a nearly done state.

Jonas:

* worked on improvements to sidebar and continuous playback support.
* worked on gzip/deflate support for feeds
* going to switch to 4.1 development

Geoffrey:

* worked on fixing a series of nits for 4.0.2

Kaz:

* worked on unit tests for metadata

Janet:

* worked on 4.0.2 testing
* continuing to work on regression testing and updating test systems

Will:

* finished Miro User Manual updates
* almost done overhauling our Ubuntu packaging to make it easier to
  be easier to deal with
* sent Steven a contributor assignment form
* started working on the overhaul of Miro on Windows


**Order of business:**

* 4.0.2: Fix anything important, but this is probably our last point
  release for the 4 series.  We're pretty close to having blockers
  finished.
* 4.1: We have a lot of clean-up work that we want to do, but probably
  can only work through some of it for 4.1.  So we talked about doing
  theme-focused clean-up similar to what we've done on previous
  releases and clean up things related to things we're working on.

* Miro is developed by a community of people including you!  If you
  can't contribute your time and work to development, testing, and
  translations, please consider contributing funding by `donating
  <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`_.  Your money goes directly to
  ongoing development of Miro and related projects like `Miro
  Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ and `Universal Subtitles
  <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_.  See
  http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these projects.

* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual?  If you haven't looked at
  it yet, it's worth taking a look at.  You can find it at
  http://manual.getmiro.com/ .


**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last week:**

* 58 bugs/feature-requests created
* 4 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 1 bugs marked INVALID
* 2 bugs marked ---
* 8 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 5 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 19 bugs marked FIXED
