.. title: Dev call 12/22/2010
.. slug: devcall_20101222
.. date: 2010-12-22 12:49:16
.. tags: miro, work

First off, I'm back from "paternity leave" as of Monday. I'm back to
taking notes of the dev calls and posting the summaries.

I'm game for changing the way these summaries work. If you have thoughts
or criticisms along those lines, let me know either by email or by
comments.

Miro 3.5.1 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=3.5.1>`__)

* released!

Miro 4.0 status
(`roadmap <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/roadmap.cgi?product=Miro&target=4.0>`__)

* working on metadata support, device syncing, performance
  enhancements, extensions, streaming to other devices (ipad, ...), ...
* working on project infrastructure: wiki, nightlies, nightly runs of
  unit tests, ...

Kaz:

* fixed scroll position reset problems
* working on audio/video detection
* worked on bug triage

Will:

* back, but it'll take me a week or two to phase in completely
* did a lot of bug triage
* going to switch to Windows for primary development for a while so
  that platform has someone paying attention to it
* working on unit test framework bits
* trying to finish up the extensions research work before the end of
  the year

Paul:

* continued to work on device support
* worked on bug triage

Geoffrey:

* working on media sharing code (daap) and getting things into the
  Apple appstore

Janet:

* worked on Universal Subtitles testing
* just got builds for the next version of MVC and will test that
* worked on bug triage

Ben:

* worked on fast searching; looking at whoosh, but there are some
  complications

Official business:

* talked about the state of unit testing and documentation for Miro
* talked about how Miro will do device support; how users can add
  support for additional devices; supporting generic devices;
  supporting other USB mass storage devices (thumbdrives ftw!)
* we spent a bunch of time over the last week having a **massive bug
  triaging party**! We resolved around 200 bugs and now have around 700
  open bugs. There were a lot of stale/obsolete bugs that were closed,
  bugs that we needed input on but never got it that were marked as
  INCOMPLETE, bugs that got fixed, bugs that got put in the 4.0 target,
  and some enhancements we looked at and said, "That's just not the
  direction we're stewarding Miro" and marked as WONTFIX. I think this
  is the sort of thing we should do either after every new release or
  at the end of the year.
* git master is in pretty heavy flux right now and because of that
  nightlies are pretty unstable--use them at your own risk. This will
  sort itself over time when there are fewer massive changes being
  made.
* `PCF is looking to hire another Miro developer and a System
  Administrator <http://www.pculture.org/pcf/jobs/>`__. See the jobs
  page for more details.
* Miro is developed by a community of people including you! If you
  can't contribute your time and work, please consider contributing
  funding by `donating <https://www.miroguide.com/donate>`__. Your
  money goes directly to ongoing development of Miro and related
  projects. See http://pculture.org/about/ for more details on these
  projects.
* Did you know there's a Miro User Manual? If you haven't looked at it
  yet, it's worth taking a look at. You can find it at
  http://getmiro.com/userguide/.

**Bugzilla stats for Miro for the last 4 weeks:**

* 132 bugs/feature-requests created
* 30 bugs marked WORKSFORME
* 12 bugs marked INVALID
* 18 bugs marked DUPLICATE
* 108 bugs marked WONTFIX
* 74 bugs marked FIXED
* 51 bugs marked INCOMPLETE

Note: Numbers above are so high because this is 4 weeks of data--not the
usual 1 week of data.
