.. title: 48 Hour Film Project - 2007
.. slug: 48hours_2007
.. date: 2007-05-17 17:28:58
.. tags: content, 48hfp, fun

The `48 Hour Film Project <http://www.48hourfilm.com/boston/>`_ for Boston 2007
has come to an end and it was pretty awesome.  There were 100 teams this year
of which 92 finished films and handed them in.  I helped usher again and saw
some 83 movies over the course of the last two weeks.  A bunch of them were
filmed within a half mile of my apartment just outside of Davis Square.

This is my fourth year ushering.  Over the four years the movies have gotten
better.  A large portion of the teams have done it for several years and you
can definitely tell they've gotten most of the kinks out of their filming and
post-production.  I think the availability of better filming and production
equipment and software helps as well.  Some of the teams were mentioning how
they used cameras that stored data on hard drives directly and this saved them
gobs of time that they would have spent transferring the data from tape to hard
drive.

The 48hfp folks have created a new site for hosting movies at
`<http://www.48.tv/>`_, though they don't have the Boston 2007 movies up yet
(obviously).  Some teams are uploading their movies onto YouTube and other
video sites.  If you search for "48hfp" or "48 hour film Boston 2007" you can
see them.  

It was a really great year for movies.  There's a Best Of showing at the
Cooliedge Corner Theatre on June 7th.  It's definitely worth going to if you've
got the time.  There are more details `here
<http://www.48hourfilm.com/boston/>`_ under "Best Of".
