.. title: Me: 2016 retrospective
.. slug: me_2016
.. date: 2017-01-14 10:00
.. tags: content, life, dev, python, pyvideo, mozilla, everett

My 2016 retrospective in which I talk about projects I worked on, pushed off and
other things.


.. TEASER_END


I spent some time in 2016 passing one of my big projects off:

* `PyVideo <http://pyvideo.org>`_: In January 2016, I announced I was pretty
  done and wanted to end the site. I didn't have anyone to hand it off to, so
  that was going to be that. Sheila and I talked about that for a bit and then
  decided to export all the data into a new project and spend some quality time
  on improving the data and building infrastructure so a community could
  maintain the data.

  Then Paul showed up with a cadre of like-minded people and built a new
  statically-generated PyVideo using the data Sheila and I had been curating.
  Sheila and I worked with him and it was a smooth transition. The site is
  `doing a lot better now and has a larger community of people maintaining it
  <http://pyvideo.org/pages/thank-you-contributors.html>`_. That's fantastic!

  In October 2016, `the Python Software Foundation awarded Sheila and I a
  Community Service Award for our work on PyVideo
  <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-awards/#october-2016>`_. I'm
  really proud of this even though I wasn't as successful as I wanted to be.
  There's a `blog post covering PyVideo, the handoff and the award
  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/01/shelia-miguez-and-will-kahn-greene-and_19.html>`_.


At this stage, I don't have many projects on my plate anymore. I continued
working on existing projects:

* `bleach <https://github.com/mozilla/bleach>`_: I continued to clean up issues
  and pull requests, fix documentation to clarify the scope of the project and
  worked on code changes for 1.4.3 and 1.5 releases. Started the work to switch
  to html5lib 0.99999999 (8 9s).

* `Standup <https://github.com/mozilla/standup>`_: Mozilla ended `Persona
  <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Persona>`_ which was the identity
  management system Standup used. Further, the codebase was pretty rough and it
  was hard to administrate the site. So Paul and I decided to rewrite Standup as
  a Django app and switch to Github auth. There are still a lot of issues, but
  the base is theoretically better and the site can keep operating even after
  Persona has been shut down.

* `Dennis <https://github.com/willkg/dennis>`_: I spent some time fiddling with
  translation pipelines. It's been tricky. I haven't worked out an architecture
  I like, yet. I don't use Dennis anymore and I don't have any help on it, so I
  think I may look to pass this project off or end it in 2017. If you're
  interested in it, let me know. I interpret silence as you're not interested
  and don't use it.


I started some new projects:

* `Everett <https://github.com/willkg/everett>`_: Everett is the result of me
  being unhappy with the landscape of Python configuration libraries. It started
  out as an experiment, but I'm now using it in a few projects and I'm pretty
  happy with it.

  In 2017, I'll probably do more to make it a real project and write some posts
  on architectural decisions.

* `Antenna <https://github.com/mozilla/antenna>`_: At Mozilla, I'm currently on
  the team working on `Socorro <https://github.com/mozilla/socorro>`_ which is
  our system for crash report collection, processing and analysis for Firefox
  and other Mozilla products. In 2016, I embarked on extracting and rewriting
  the collector portion of the ingestion pipeline.

  I spent some quality time with AWS, AWS Lambda, docker, Python 3, Falcon,
  gevent and boto3. I also developed some things that are being spun out into
  other projects: Everett, a logging mock, a boto3 S3 mock and a metrics
  infrastructure.


Generally 2016 was ok, but felt slower than previous years. I didn't feel like I
got much accomplished. I switched from Input (now decommissioned) to `MDN
<https://developer.mozilla.org/>`_ then to Socorro so I spent a large portion of
the year onboarding onto big, complex projects.

My manager says this is all expected and that I really did accomplish a lot, but
the nature of what I accomplished was implicit and not explicit and so harder to
itemize.

I know I got some things done:

* I wrote up onboarding docs for MDN developers.

* I cleared the MDN security bug backlog.

* I wrote Socorro onboarding documentation and cleaned up some of the project
  infrastructure documentation. There's a ton more work to do here, but it's
  probably better.

* I rewrote the Socorro collector component. I read through the existing code,
  wrote out a spec, experimented with some architectures, settled on one,
  implemented it, wrote tests, wrote system tests, coordinated other peoples'
  efforts and worked on a migration plan.

  I actually did more work than that--I wrote two partial implementations with
  two different methodologies and then started a third ground-up rewrite in
  September which is the one we're going with now.

  When writing the new collector (called Antenna), I ended up writing a
  configuration library (Everett) to simplify the architecture.

* I started a project to dockerize Socorro to make it easier to run a prod-like
  environment on my local machine. I have a collector and a crashmover. I
  experimented with how to structure it so that it's convenient for use in
  development. This needs to be finished (processor, middleware, webapp,
  crontabber), but I think I've settled on a good approach.

* I assisted in upgrading Socorro from Python 2.7.5 to 2.7.11 which turned out
  to be super hard because of how our infrastructure was set up and the bash
  scripts we use to build and delpoy things are "interesting".

* I took over the Socorro stage submitter which was having a lot of problems and
  kept falling down which disrupted development and testing. After taking it
  over, I cleaned up the node, reworked how it runs and wrote docs so others
  could fix it when it went down. (Though it hasn't gone down since.)

* I worked with Paul to rewrite Standup as a Django app making it easier to
  maintain. We sill have a ways to go. We spent a lot of time dealing with
  authentication and identity issues. We switched from Persona to Github auth
  which created a lot of problems. Now we're switching from Github auth to
  Mozilla's hosted Auth0 which is creating a new set of problems. I think I'm
  going to have to fix everyone's accounts by hand at this point.

  I spent a lot of time rewriting our Auth0 implementation so that it was easy
  to extract into a Django library. If that's useful to other Mozilla sites and
  I get some help with maintaining it, I'll split it out. Otherwise it'll
  continue on as an overengineered auth system in Standup.

* I switched to instant coffee for 6 months. I don't think I'm going to do that
  again, but it was interesting.


Challenges for the year:

* Things feel slower than when I was working on Input.

* Onboarding is hard. Joining teams with established development processes,
  culture and lots of history is hard. Coordinating with other busy people is
  hard.

* Carving out time to do deep dives into big issues on side projects like bleach
  and html5lib 0.99999999 (8 9s) support has been difficult. I've always had
  this problem--it's nothing new, but it's still tough.

* Dropping my FSF membership in June. I probably should have done this a couple
  of years ago. Lots of reasons. Feeling much better about things now that I've
  dropped my membership.


In 2017, I want to:

* Clean up my office. It's a mess (still).

* Make awesome stickers for one of the things I work on.


That's 2016 in a nutshell!
