.. title: Got a new case
.. slug: newcase
.. date: 2004-11-22 19:20:05
.. tags: content, hardware

I gave my desktop to my girlfriend's parents because their machine was
about to die (like, serious *death*) and my machine was more machine
than I needed and I figured I'd borrow some spare components from my dad
and after that series of transactions, everyone would be happy. Thus it
transpired and everyone was happy! w00t!

Then I discovered I couldn't put the massive full tower case under
either of my desks and with the fourteen fans (some of which were parts
taken from dismantled B-52 flying fortresses) it sounded like my desk
was sitting on the tarmac of an air field during an air show.

Not to look a gift horse in the mouth, I decided to get a smaller
quieter case and picked up an Antec Sonata. It's great. Everything I had
read about it was right on down to the fact that you can count exactly
how many times you touched the top of the case due to the amazing
ability of the piano black finish to preserve in a pristine fashion
every single detail of every single fingerprint.

Then after wrestling with the IDE ribbon cables, I decided to pick up
two rounded IDE cables for $8.00 each.

The machine is super duper! Total monetary cost to me so far is $112. My
girlfriend's parents got a machine to replace their very seriously
almost dead one. My dad freed up some room in his computer room.
Everyone is happy!...

Well, except for my girlfriend who's a little unexcited when I spend
long periods of time over several days futzing with hardware.

AMAZON::B000087ZQC::Antec Sonata case AMAZON::B0002344O8::24" Rounded
IDE cable
