.. title: New year 2007!
.. slug: newyear-2007
.. date: 2007-01-01 15:42:37
.. tags: content, life

Today is the start of the new year. I went through my web-site and
updated a bunch of stuff to reflect changes in status, direction, and
what's coming up. I also spent some time updating my resume.

Writing resumes is a pain in the ass. I've done a lot of stuff and it's
hard to prove that I did it and that I did it well since most of it is
locked behind NDAs and Confidentiality agreements and all that. Even if
it wasn't, it's a lot of stuff and I only remember bits and pieces of it
and I don't remember all the gory details. The whole thing feels like
marketing: "Hire me because it'll be AWESOME!"

I threw in a section of technology smorgasbord--acronyms,
"technologies", applications, ... blah blah blah. Most people have all
that stuff on their resume regardless of whether they have much
experience with it. It's hard to know how to get across my
experience/knowledge level in those things--am I an expert or just an
advanced user? If I under-rate myself to err on the side of accuracy,
will a company skip over me because their HR department is looking for
people with 25 years of Java experience?

It's hard to get across in a resume that I work pretty hard, I work
pretty smart, and I get along with other people pretty well. It's hard
to get across that I'm somewhat quiet but I work hard at communicating
comprehensively and accurately without overloading someone with lots of
stuff. It's hard to get across that the people I've worked with over the
years really liked working with me and that together we've done a lot of
really great stuff, but for some reason it doesn't seem as great when I
look at the things other people my age have accomplished. It's hard to
get across that over the last 10 years, I've grown a lot and so far I
keep growing--I am not a stick in the mud. It's easy to get across that
I really love this stuff and that I practically dream about it because I
can say that in a single sentence.

The only evidence I have that's publicly available is the work I've done
on Lyntin and PyBlosxom. I cut a lot of teeth on Lyntin, but I'm really
happy with where I left it. I'm not as happy with PyBlosxom, but I think
that's mostly just a function of how much work I wanted to do versus how
much time I actually spent on it.

My resume is `here <http://www.bluesock.org/~willkg/me/resume.html>`__.
I'm Will Guaraldi and I'm looking for a job in May 2007.
