.. title: Open Video Conference was awesome!
.. slug: ovc2009_2
.. date: 2009-06-22 19:33:30
.. tags: content, work, miro

I just got back from the `Open Video
conference <http://openvideoconference.org/>`__ and it was really
inpsiring and really awesome. From when I arrived in NYC late Thursday
night to when I left this morning, the time flew by. I met a variety of
people who have a stake in the Open Video game: producers, directors,
creators, distributors, publishers, companies, representatives,
individuals, codec hackers, renderer hackers, player hackers, site
builders, community builders, independent journalists, movers, shakers,
etc.

I met a co-worker I've worked closely with for some months, but never
met (and didn't realize who he was until after he was introduced). 7 out
of 10 (or so) PCF staff were all there--the largest number of PCF staff
in one place I've been a part of. Ben, Paul and I were able to do some
Miro work and talk about issues we're having pushing 2.5 out the door. I
met with Jean-Baptiste from `VideoLAN <http://videolan.org/>`__ (they
make VLC) and talked about their impending 1.0 release (I scored a
pre-release tarball and already started working on upgrading Miro on
Windows to use VLC 1.0). I talked about metadata with a few people and I
talked about problems with torrents in RSS enclosures with Kevin and
[STRIKEOUT:Nathan (I'm pretty sure that's his name)] Michael from
`LimeWire <http://www.limewire.com/>`__ on things they're working on
that have a lot of synergy with things we're working on. I talked with
Joe Born from `Neuros Technology <http://www.neurostechnology.com/>`__
about work I did in March on the Neuros Link and how we should go
forward working out issues that Miro has when running on the Link (it
runs well, but could use some ui tlc). Seeing what people are thinking
about and doing with HTML 5 video tag was great.

It was a really productive conference for me. It's really clear what
role Miro plays in the future of Open Video on the web. It'll be
exciting to be a part of the future unfolding.

**Updates:**

6/23/2009: I met Michael from LimeWire--not Nathan.
