.. title: Status: November 30th, 2010
.. slug: status.11302010
.. date: 2010-11-30 14:55:41
.. tags: content, miro, work, life, dev, pyblosxom, python

A week ago, my son was born. Since then, I've been doing
newborn-management things and haven't been around to work on projects I
maintain, manage or otherwise work on. I'm taking a few weeks off to get
adjusted to being a new dad and also because it's the first time in a
long time I've taken a few weeks off. Really truly off.

`Miro <http://getmiro.com/>`__ development is going well. I'm out of the
picture for a bit, but things are progressing well without me. Ben is
managing the Miro 3.5.1 release and that should happen soon. Kaz landed
metadata support (which is awesome) in master. Paul landed device
syncing a couple of weeks ago in master. Geoff is doing a lot of awesome
work cleaning up the code and working on streaming to other devices.
Janet is migrating us from Eggplant to `Sikuli <http://sikuli.org/>`__
and filling out other testing infrastructure. I'm sitting on an
extensions infrastructure which needs some more work, but I think it
could get finished up enough in time for Miro 4. All in all, it's been
really busy in master and out of the chaos will come some really awesome
improvements. A huge huge thank you to my colleagues at
`PCF <http://pculture.org/>`__ and all the people in the Miro community
that I work with to build a better Miro for letting me take some time
off to get acquainted with my new son. I really appreciate this.

`PyBlosxom <http://pyblosxom.bluesock.org/>`__ is languishing a bit
because I need to create some additional infrastructure for the project.
I need to spend some time on this and then PyBlosxom will do much
better. I did move the server that the PyBlosxom web-site is living on,
so nothing's blocking infrastructure stuff except my free time. We've
got a bunch of people who are working on fleshing out PyBlosxom 1.5, the
documentation, tests, and plugins. It's been really great the last few
months to have this level of activity and other than a lack of
issue-tracker, I think the project is doing really well.

`Python Miro Community <http://python.mirocommunity.org/>`__ has some
problems right now specifically with dead file links. I need to work
with the Miro Community devs to add some functionality I need to make it
easier to automatically query and update metadata for all these videos.
Managing 600+ videos by hand is impossible. I'm still sitting on videos
from a handful of conferences. In the near future, I'd like to integrate
`Universal Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`__ which will make
the videos accessible to a much much larger group of people.

`GNOME Miro Community <http://gnome.mirocommunity.org>`__ has more
problems than Python Miro Community does because I've spent much less
time with it. The focus is a little blurrier for GNOME Miro Community
and I haven't put in the time to work it out, yet. I need to talk with
Paul Cutler and work out how GNOME Miro Community fits into the rest of
things and then I need to be more proactive with the project.

I apologize for leaving things in the state they're in, but I will
return soon! If you need me, ping me by email.
