.. title: Status 04/05/2005
.. slug: status.04052005
.. date: 2005-04-05 11:25:27
.. tags: content, life, pyblosxom, books, muds

It's shaping up to be a long, but productive week.

**PyBlosxom**

We're working through the problems a bunch of problems with the
contributed plugins that have been sitting around for some time. This
includes assigning licenses to all the plugins, adding version/author
information, making sure they have some modicum of documentation, and at
some point (hopefully) testing them all out in PyBlosxom 1.2. Hopefully
this will put the contributed plugin pack in a much better state of
being.

Steven, Bill, Wari, and Doug decided that it was high time we started
using various features of CVS to make development better. I've had some
growing pains with this and kind of wished people had figured things out
and written up a process before making the changes. Even though I'm
grumbling about the way it's happened, it is a good thing it is
happening and it will make it a lot easier to do some of the things
we've been doing for a while now. It'll also help a huge amount now that
we've got more than one or two active developers.

I have a lot of plans for the PyBlosxom manual, but haven't had time to
execute on any of them yet. The wiki we were storing documentation in
was taken down since the jackass ISP that Wari had got all befuddled and
confused and terminated his account with them. The problem here is that
I had documentation in the wiki I hadn't had time to port to the manual
yet. Fortunately, Wari sent me the contents of the wiki. I had
documentation in there that I hadn't had time to port to the manual yet.

I'm 90% sure I know how to restructure what we've got right now to allow
for Bill's index caching and also other storage systems. Depending on
how things go with everyone else's PyBlosxom projects, I'll prototype
this, write up a specification, send it round, and then implement the
resulting modifications all before the next version of PyBlosxom.

Since Ted's PyBlosxom presentation at PyCon 2005, we've had 10-20x as
much PyBlosxom development activity. That's been really exciting but
also really daunting. Definitely a lot of growing pains mostly between
my style of running things and peoples' vision for how things should be
run.

Steven is still working on fixing the PyBlosxom registry to be a bit
more user-friendly. We're short on flavour templates and some people
really dislike this so I want to spend a week building new flavours at
some point in the near future. Maybe I'll toss all the flavours in the
contributed plugin pack to replace the existing flavour examples that
come with it (I highly doubt anyone uses any of them).

Getting there....

**grad school**

I was accepted into the masters program at Northeastern University CCS.
Starting in September, I'll be a full time grad student. My advisor is
Mitch Wand (which is very exciting) and I was awarded a Dean's List
Scholarship which reduces the costs assuming I maintain a 3.0 GPA and
miscellaneous other things in fine print. All very exciting.

Need to learn Lisp, review all the stuff I learned in college, and
attempt to get ahead of the game by covering as many of the things I'm
going to be learning as possible.

**DarkRifts**

I've adjusted the way I'm working on DarkRifts such that I'm limiting
myself to one coding goal every week. This will reduce the amount of
stuff I'm doing there, but more importantly, it makes it easier to
schedule things and gives me time to work on all the other non-DarkRifts
stuff out there.

**My book(s)**

I'm in the process of looking at `Lulu <http://www.lulu.com/>`__ to do
some self-publishing. S and I wrote a children's book last year which
might be a good candidate for Lulu. The problem being that we'd need to
redo the layout.

On top of that, I'm novel-izing the D&D campaign that I've been in for a
year and a half. That's been going really well so far. I'm done the
first couple of chapters. If anyone else plans to do something like
this, it helps to take really good session notes and maintain a public
set of summaries that other people in the campaign can fix.

On top of that, S and I have some ideas on the next children's book, but
we still need to sit down and flesh them out a bit.

**Other**

Work has been super busy the last couple of weeks on top of everything
else.

And I started running again and I finally got around to cutting my hair,
too.
