.. title: 4/7/2003 summary
.. slug: summary-2003-04-07-22-00
.. date: 2003-04-07 22:00:00
.. tags: content, life, dev

It's threatening to snow outside. Normally this sort of thing doesn't
occur so it's a bit bizarre. Not to mention the fact that it'd be nice
if it was nice outside. On the flip side, since I'm at work all day and
the only windows in my cube are the ones on my monitor, I'm not wholly
sure I care.

I read a `terrible article <http://freshmeat.net/articles/view/774/>`__
on Freshmeat about Open Source software. The dude says he's a software
engineer and that he was "enlightened in 1997 by Free Software" (capital
letters and verbiage are his) which is silliness. If he was
"enlightened" and really understood the motivations of the hundreds of
thousands of faceless developers out there silently (from a media
perspective) working on open source software, he'd never have written
this article. He'd have known about the synergy that occurs between
projects who have some similar goals as they learn from each other--both
mistakes and successes. He'd have known that most of us are decent
developers looking to learn more about development--that many projects
are done to learn--that the production is far far far more important for
the developer in question than the product. He'd have known that most
developers are not magic makers--that most of us specialize in a few
aspects of software development and that a TEAM of people is responsible
for a solid product that has solid design, solid goals, solid
functionality, solid unit testing, solid documentation, and solid
support. He'd have known that as a project matures and evolves as a
function of its user base and its usage, it hits a point where the code
becomes unwieldy and it needs refactoring. Sometimes it needs to be
rewritten. This is good. He'd have known that there are a bunch of http
software projects--with different missions and different
characteristics. He'd have known the same about SMTP MTAs, database
servers, and various other server components. He'd have known a lot of
things. He's enlightened for incredibly loose usages of the word
enlightened.
